<doc.id=0107.a2>
<title> Stop commercial breaks on television </title>
"I declare war, against split ends and damage hair", "Gillette, the best a man can get". There are many examples of commercial phrases that television provides us with. According me, they are neither good or necessary and destroy my comfortable evenings in front of the television. I think commercial should be removed from the televisionscreen so everyone can choose what they want to watch.
	 In the first place, commercial on television conduce to annoying breaks you actually do not need or want. After twenty minutes of a good film I am not in a mood to be interrupted; probably I just got hang of the action. During the breaks you often switch over to another channel and you might get interested in that program instead. Is that what television commercial is meant for, for us to switch over? Sometimes it also happens that you forget to get back to the first program in time because the breaks are very unsettled and you never know if they will last for two or five minutes. An impatient atmosphere often occurs and it is also sometimes difficult to get back in the action after been doing other things for a moment.
	 In the second place, television commercial makes people dislike products because of the way we get introduced to them. I would feel stupid to call "Via direct" and I would never buy Ajax products because I know people do not clean their houses dressed up with a happy face as the woman in the commercial and I do not want to look so ridiculous as she does. It is so pathetic so I can not believe in what they assert. I have had enough of comments like "because I am worth it" and I rather use shampoos, make up and other products which are not so overrated.
	 Finally, I will account for the main argument why I think commercial should be removed from our televisionscreens. This kind of commercial is not realistic, it directs chiefly to women and it often alludes to sex. The nuclear family with members look like supermodels, teeth which are white and shining and look plastic because of some chewing gum or toothpaste and mothers who do the washing, smiling and laughing - is this the picture of society we want to give children and young people of today? As a woman I can sometimes feel humiliated because of all these false messages. I think in particularly of the one when good looking women are cheering and clapping during a race for their dishcloths. I do not want to be described in such a naiv and unintelligent way and it does not appeal to me at all. I often wonder how smart the persons that create these commercials are, do they think at all? As a consumer I know that my hair will not be shiny and fluffy just like in the commercial, I understand that the advertising film does not show or tell the whole true and that special effects are used. If I buy a product it is because of the price or if I like it, not because Kate Moss tells me to use it. The "sextheme" is very popular today so even in commercials. JC tried to sell a sexy attitude last year where teenagers were sitting in the grass and started their foreplay. You could not hardly see the clothes, instead you felt the exiting atmosphere and saw their desire for love in their faces. When teenagers who buy their clothes see this kinds of commercials I think they get a wrong view of what love and life in that age is all about but when it comes around they like to wear JC cloths because it gives them the right (in this case sexy) image. 
	 I do not mean that all commercial is bad even though I think most of it is worthless. Still, it influences us more than we can imagine. Even if I am aware of the commercials' purpose to try and affect us, it still gets to me somehow and especially television commercial because we get picture and sound at the same time. I know that some channels need to have commercial breaks; it is a big part of their financing and important money. But, I have got a solution, or a compromise; if commercial has to be on, show it after and before instead of interrupt during programs. When I and many others take place in front of the television it is because we want to relax, be entertained, stimulate our interests and not to get irritated. I want to make my own choices, even when it comes to television programs.
</doc>