<doc.id=0119.a2>
<title> Reduce the number of entering foreigners </title>
In this essay I will argue for a change in our politics dealing with foreigners. I want Sweden to reduce the number of persons who get the permission to stay each year. Of course I don't want this to be a permanent change, just for a couple of years so that we are able to produce a system that works, in the dealing with foreigners. I think that our community has developed in a bad direction due to the huge number of foreigners entering Sweden each year. My opinion is that Sweden at present has a situation we can't handle in the communication between foreigners and those who have Swedish as a native language. I believe we must do something about this before the problem grows stronger and to reduce the number of entering foreigners for a few years can be one solution.

 One of my arguments for this reduction is that we today can't help refugees to the point I think is necessary for handling such a situation properly. This has led to a high criminality among foreigners. Many of them come here with heavy memories and difficulties in adjusting to a completely new country, with its language, habits and culture. I don't think it's strange that problems arise and lead to criminality, which is the case of many foreigners, especially for young men. The fact that many of the crimes in Sweden are made by these people, don't make it easier for Swedes to accept those not born here. Negative feelings about foreigners have increased as a result and many in Sweden have developed into racists. One frightening aspect of this is the big amount of people who are "invisible" in their disliking of refugees, that is, people who don't go out with their thoughts in public. I don't think that so much must happen before their feelings increase. I can refer to myself in this situation because I've become more hostile to refugees in the last few years; due to things I've seen and heard about them. The place where I live has changed since we got a refugee camp and there is much more violence now than for a few years ago. 
Another bad aspect with this minority group of criminal foreigners is that they make it harder for the other nice foreigners. The well-behaved foreigners get in trouble because of the bad reputation of the criminal ones and can meet resistance in society. 

I feel like Sweden is moving in a vicious circle that we don't try to break. We now see us in a situation that will soon blow of like a bomb. I therefore insist that we must reduce the number of foreigners, who get the opportunity to stay in this country, while we can't take care of those already here. Sweden doesn't have the ability to take care of people, who come in despair, fear and hope for a safe place. We can't do like now, that is, place them in some refugee camp until they know they have the permission to stay. This process can take an incredible time and to be rejected a stay after for example six years is very cruel and unfair. There must be a way to shorten this waiting period. 

Another aspect, which I find extremely important, is that we should try to integrate foreigners in society and give them a chance to live as we do. With this I mean Sweden should avoid establishing suburbs for foreigners, where the opportunities of developing are smaller than in an area with people of both Swedish and non-Swedish cultures. It's important to make people from different cultures meet each other and learn the others valuations and way of life. We must avoid creating a society where it is divided into them and we as it becomes when people live in different areas and maybe go to different schools.

My opinion is therefore that Sweden during some years must draw down on the number of refugees getting a permission to stay here. The main argument for this is that I think we've got a situation we can't manage, with far too much criminality, when we don't have the opportunities to take care of all foreigners already living here.
</doc>