<doc.id=0135.a2>
<title> Racism </title>
"Like tribalism, fundamentalism, homophobia and all the other shallow responses of one person to another, racism concentrates on "what" you are, and ignores "who" you are."
	 Timothy Findley
This is an argumentational essay against racism. Racism has been a problem ever since the humans began to walk on the earth. Racism means that you as a racist are looking down on people of other races, and treat them unfairly. You see your own race as the best one. In our history, the focal point of racism has laid on the whites discrimination of the other races. That is partly because they have had the power most of the time. Very many problems had occurred based on misunderstandings about other races cultures and the believes that in a race all the people have the same physical characteristics depending of which race they come from. In this essay I will try to argue why I am against racism based mostly on the two aspects, unfair treatment of certain races an the belief that some races are better than the other.

The United Nations resolution about every peoples equal rights, that we here in Sweden are bound to follow, says that we can't treat other races different from our own. Unfortunately, even if we have a non-discrimination law from 1994 here in Sweden, this is not followed. A immigrant who have the same criteria as a white person is in many cases chosen last when he/she is looking for a job. This happens even if they speak very good Swedish. They don't get the job because of their appearance and colour of their skin. In Sweden fortunately we don't usually have open struggle between races. In Sweden there are a lot of scepticism against other cultures than the Swedish but there are only a few groups who tries to hurt people. In other countries though, like South Africa was when the Apartheid system was the ruling system, the hole government and authorities tries to discriminate the black people in all different sorts of ways. The blacks had no right to vote, they were segregated and tortured and they were not allowed to get any good job. The whites were afraid that if the black people got the power the whites would do the same to them as revenge. As we see in South Africa today when the Apartheid system no longer exist more black and whites are now living together and the country are now up on its feet again after decades of racism were the whites thought they were the master race.

This leads us in to the other aspect I thought to write about namely the belief in master races, races that are better than other races. Frustration about social situation is one reason why this thought have occurred. You have to blame someone that look different and comes from an other culture and meaning that your race is better than his/hers. The best example of this is of course what happened in Nazi-Germany during the 30s and 40s when millions of people were murded because of the thought that the Jews an other races were "untermenschen" which means that they weren't worth as much as the Germanic master race. Yale biologist Johnatan Morks writes in an article about that he don't belief that races are distinct biological categories created by differences in genes inherit from parents. This shows that the racist are wrong about a master race, there are very few genetical differences between races. There is no evidence that some races could have hereditary intelligent or mental rudiments or being stronger than other races just because he is from just this race. It is of course never proven that everyone of a certain race have the same hereditary draws. The best athletes and professionals are from all different races. 

As you could see we are very much alike. I think we can learn a lot from other cultures and that we must deal with all the environmental problems we are standing before in the future together. Even the food could be a problem in the future where we should cooperate and not kill each other because we look different. Money and power used by some races to discriminate others are also a problem that we should solve in the future. I don't think that people are so different after all, we all have two ears, one nose, one mouth and are born by a mother. So beating other people and thinking that their race incorrectly are better than another, is only racist rubbish we all have to fight against through knowledge and communication.
</doc>