<doc.id=0138.a2>
<title> The state doesn't support families to take care of they're elderly. </title>
Nowadays it is almost seen as a failure to let the state take care of you're elderly. On the other hand today's society doesn't support families to take care of them. I'm taking stand in this subject according to Swedish circumstances. In other countries conditions might be different and people are given other possibilities. Looking at the society we live in today, and judging from my own experience, while I've been in contact with this quite recently, I think it is not possible for the family to take care of the elderly. My arguments against it is simply time and money.

When it comes to the economical aspect, the state doesn't support the family to take care of they're elderly. This I will state with an example from my own experience. My grandmother was in need of extra help. Because of the distances up in the north where she is living it wasn't possible to get someone to come to her house and help her as much as she needed. They told us the only solution was to put her in a service flat in town. Non of us relatives agreed with this. My mum's youngest sister who doesn't have a family decided to take leave from her job and move in with my grandmother. This turned out to be a fulltime job, but with no salary. To look after you're old sick mother is not seen at as a job so she didn't get ATP for this full time job, and only three hours pay a day from the state. The whole situation was intolerable, even though all the relatives put in some money to help out. 

To have one more person in the household does not just mean extra expanses in food. To get an extra person who is in the need of care also means that you got to have a room to spare, you might have to rearrange or even rebuild some parts of your home and maybe get special facilities to be able to take care of this person. All this costs money. To care for them properly you also have to work less, which means less money. When the situation asks for the opposite. 

The time aspect isn't of less importance. Nowadays families hardly have time to do things together themselves. Everybody in the family have different schedules. You are lucky if the whole family is gathered around the dinner table once a day. Many families have to leave they're children to different day centres, nannies, and even hire someone to drive them to and from different activities to get the schedule to work out, I dept that those families really have time for an extra very demanding person.
To take care of an old person will take a lot of time and effort. You will have to cut down on work. It is not for no reason they need to be taken care of. They wont be healthy and happy just by living in your home if no one is ever there. If they feel as a burden and that no one has time for them they will be better of in a service flat.

If you don't have the economical possibilities and the extra time to set aside for a person who needs you full time. I think you have to face the facts. They will be better taken care of by the state. This picture of the family taking care of they're elderly doesn't go hand in hand with today's society. It is not a failure to let the state take care of you're elderly. After all, both family and state have the same interest, to give the elderly the best possible care. This is just the way the system works and instead of being ashamed of that you don't have the possibilities to take care of them in your own home, make sure to use just a small part of that time and money it would cost you to have them in you're home, and visit them more often.
</doc>