<doc.id=0150.a2>
<title> We should not eat our friends. </title>
To realise something can be very difficult. Especially when it forces people to change the way they are living. It is hard when we decide not to eat our friends. But it is the only right decision and I am going to explain why.

I have been a vegetarian for almost two years. I can say I am doing it for many reasons. First of all I am a vegetarian for my own sake. It is not good for our health to eat too much meat. Meat contains a lot of fat, which makes it easier to get a heartcondition. Secondly I am a vegetarian because I care about the environment. Cattlefood needs strong artificial manuring. Because of that discharge from factories with animals destroys the subsoilwater and the soil. I am also a vegetarian because it is a waste of the world's resources to eat meat. A space of land used to produce vegetables can feed at least ten times as many people as if we give the vegetables to the animals and then eat them. All these arguments are good ones, especially the last one in this time of overpopulation. But it is all about becoming a vegetarian for reasons that in the end, in one way or another, affect us. 

The most obvious reason for becoming a vegetarian is one people tend to ignore. It is a truth so obvious it is hard to see. We can not eat our friends. Not because it is not good for our health, bad for the environment or a waste of land, but simply because it is wrong. Through being a vegetarian we do not participate in killing other creatures for our sake and we also repudiate the horrible conditions most animals live in, in our factories with animals today. A life of an animal brought up for the meatindustry today can not possibly be a life worth living. Most of them live their whole lives in very small areas. They are not able to go outside or hardly even turn around in their cages. When it is time to kill them it is often made in a brutal way to produce meat as cheap possible.

People often argue that it is our right to treat animals however we like since we are the most intelligent creatures on earth. But does this give us the right to violate and exploit the animals? I have a lot of times been asked what good me being a vegetarian is going to do when almost everyone else eats meat. But we have to start somewhere and more and more people mostly young ones, are starting to eat vegetarian-food. The more people who give up eating meat the fewer animals need to suffer. Another argument often heard is that animals do not have feelings. A foreign filosopher once said, "the question is not whether they can think, but can they suffer". The point is that we know animals can suffer. Everyone who has seen a calf part from its mother knows it feels grief. He who sees it knows it. 

If people were forced to kill the animals on there own and see their suffering to be able to eat meat, I think a lot of us would resist it. But as it is today it is very easy to go into a stoor and by a package of meat without having to reflect on what it is we are really eating. We do not have to see the pain in the eyes of the animals we are going to eat and we do not have to know about the conditions they have been living in if we do not want to. Since we humanbeings can live good lives without eating meat, I can not see other reasons than selfish ones for us continuing to do so.
There are no more questions to be asked. Our superior intelligence does not give us the right to make other creatures suffer. Not if we don't have to and we don't. It is the opposite - we need to let them be.
</doc>