<doc.id=0158.a2>
<title> Let's sleep! </title>
Some people can be perfectly satisfied with getting only six hours of sleep per night. These people often seem to be feeling good and awake. This, however, surely isn't the case. I believe that when you need a cup of coffee to stay alive or have to pinch yourself to keep your eyes from closing in the middle of a good movie, you're in serious trouble.

There are a number of reasons as to why I myself almost always go to bed around ten o'clock in the evening when I know that I have to get up early the next morning. Some of my friends used to have trouble understanding how this habit could make a difference in a person's life. I at the same time didn't really know how to explain it to them until I came across a study that had been done in America. This study showed that a big part of the American population doesn't get enough sleep. This means that most of the American men and women don't spend more than six hours in bed, when they according to this study should be asleep for at least ten hours per night. This is in order to keep away from becoming some kind of zombie who put other people's lives at risk. 

To me this idea of improving the quality of your own life makes perfect sense. Probably you'll feel the same way after you've read my reasons as to why we all should sleep a whole lot more than we do today.

I claim that people who ignore their need of sleep are in fact lethal. This is because when someone is tired and suffers from insomnia there are certain things that this person shouldn't be doing, like driving a car or be responsible for medication and children. Still, this is exactly what's going on everywhere around you all the time.

To illustrate this I'll give an example of what could happen on a normal day, around the time when the sun rises. At this time of day it would be possible to spot a little red car on the road. Let's say that a young nurse, who has just left the hospital, where she has worked all night, drives this car. When she arrives home she wonders who on earth drove the car, because she can't remember doing it herself. This is dangerous.

Now you'd wish for her to just get into bed and let her body recover from all the stress that's been put on her. But what does she do? Well, since her husband is still asleep, she has to take their two-year-old baby the day care centre before she can relax. So she changes the baby-boy's diaper, put clothes on him and then carries him to the car.

During the ride to the day care centre the boy doesn't really make a lot of noises, since he too is quite tired. Perhaps this is why his mother forgets all about his existence as she drives the car. Arriving at the end of their journey, the mother walks into the nursery school while her baby is still sitting in the car. Of course she remembers him a few minutes later, bur isn't this dangerous? Still she's not alarmed at all and so she gets into the car once again to drive home. Although this story is fiction it could happen and it probably does happen all the time in real life.

Except for the fact that sleep-deprivation is very much deadly it also causes trouble in relations between people. I believe that if everybody slept as much as they should we would have a happier society all over the world. Everybody knows that you get cranky when you haven't slept enough and naturally this has to affect the people around you as well. We would probably have a lot less divorces than we do now if everybody took responsibility for their own sleeping-habits. Not only would we feel much safer, but also instead of looking like gloomy skeletons, we would all be sleeping beauties.
</doc>