<doc.id=0174.a2>
<title> Give your children the best start in life, give them your time. </title>
	I am of the opinion that there is not many parents that really want their children to be brought up in the arms of the day-nursery, in a big group of children with little space to play and move around, with over-worked staff to inspire them. In other words why do we have children if we do not intend to spend any time with them to build up a good relationship and give the child a solid and hopeful trust in you and a good base to start from when they go out to explore the world. Therefore stay at home and take care of your children, it will give them the best start in life. 

	The reason why we have this situation today started under the beginning of the twentieth century when the picture of the ideal family was changed. It was influenced by the so called modernisation project. Experts were consulted to make the families futures perfect, with the main interest that the family in the best way should be able to fit into the industrial worlds expanding production. In that perspective the child was seen as a burden or an impediment for the parents working ability. Due to that the Myrdal couple introduced the social engineering concept in reality. Their concept was that well trained staff, that knew better than the parents how to raise and take care of the growing children, would take care of them when the parents worked. 

	Therefore being aware of the social engineerings false message that the best thing for your child is to be taken care of by specialists educated specialy for that purpuse. Is without doubt not true. On the contrary I am convinced that parents are the once that know what is best for their child. The home is the natural place for the child to learn about rules and putting valuations on different things. The ethical and moral foundations that are given in the boundaries of the family is of big importance for the childs continuous progress. In the little group a family consist of, every member gets the opportunity to meet love, thoughtfulness and understanding, but also meet claims and take responsibilities. In this way a family establishes a communion. Owing to all human beings desire to be seen and being a person that is not exchangeable, a person with unique qualities.

	Undoubtedly you can see the result of making the state responsible of taking care of the growing generation, in the negative way of disciplinary problems in school today. Nevertheless it seems as parents trust the school and other authorises to take care of the childrens upbringing. Due to the shortage of money in school and the states education politic today it consequently lead to teachers leaving the schools because of a bad working atmosphere. It does not seem as a stable and good base to trust the important support of your childs basic stability. They need a good support from their homes more than ever. The earlier we start the better, all to prevent a falling through the system.

	Furthermore extensive investigations clearly indicate that parents wish to decide how their children are going to be brought up during their first important years. For instance the reform that offered parents to have an extra care-subsidy to be able to take care of their children without a big loss of money proved that seventy percent of the families wanted to stay at home. What is more, the reform also pointed out that many parents looked for an alternative to the municipal child-care, some private care there the parents have more influence on how to take care of their children. 

	For these reasons I am convinced being in a small group with much time for the individual as in a family is the best start in life. The biggest responsibility for the children is a priviledge that you as a parent not shall resist. According to UN:s convention for children "the best thing for the child is the most important aspect". Owing to this we shall not let the strong economical powers, force us to leave our children to the confidence of state management. In other words we must encourage the parents and give them confidence to choose in which way their children are going to be brought up. It is evident that the joy and delight to see your childs progresses is worth every eventual shortage of money. Being aware of that you yourself at the same time are helping them to a better start in life. Just being yourself and be present will build up a mutual respect that will hold your whole life true. I am convinced that your child gets the best start in life at home with you. Owing to the family as an still important unit in society.
</doc>