<doc.id=0185.a2>
<title> Stop animal experimentation! </title>
Much have been said about animal experimentation and if it is right or not. In the name of science, millions of animals have been tortured and killed to answer the questions in the minds of scientists. Has this been successful? Maybe in some areas, but not really to the extent were you can say that animal experimentation is absolutely essential for science. But that is not the main reason why we should put an end to animal testing. There are many reasons, and I will present some of them below.
To begin with, we have the religious aspect to consider. People in general hopefully feel some kind of responsibility towards other human beings. But in the Bible, God says that man has a responsibility to everything on Earth. That of course includes animals. We should take care of all living creatures on this planet, instead of extinct rare species for economic reasons. The extinction of the white tiger and the rhino is two examples of this. Once a species has disappeared, it will never return. Some might say that we should benefit from the animals and take whatever they can bring us, including the answers they can produce in testing. But if we have a responsibility, we should know better.
If we, the humans, can claim that we are the superior race on this planet, we should also realise that being superior is the same as having the responsibility. When we know that, and treat the animals with respect, we would feel better about ourselves. We could go to sleep at night and feel that we indeed have shown respect to every living creature among us. Everyone wants to feel good and have a clear conscience. This should be a very good reason to stop animal experimentation.
	If this reason is not enough, and people still wonder why this experimentation should be stopped, I would like to point out that animals feel emotions not unlike our own. Of course this is not the common opinion, but ask anyone who has a pet at home. This person would probably tell you that his or her dog doesn't like this or that, or that his cat was unhappy when it was left alone one day, or something else. Our pets love us, and we love them. Why should it be different with the animals in the laboratories, can it be true that these animals cannot feel as well? It is without a shadow of a doubt that I can say that animals do have feelings, they can feel joy and pain just as we can. Still we torture them with cosmetics in their eyes and we inject them with poisonous substances. It is claimed that this is for the good of the humans. But do we feel better? Is it worth it? People who don't agree to these questions buy products that are not tested on animals. This group of people is getting larger every day. This should tell us something. More people are buying products that are not affecting our environment badly, so if the environment is important to us, the creatures living in it should be just as important.
	Some objects to the animal experimentation in the cosmetic business, but not the scientific. The scientific experimentation on animals could help us find the cure for some terrible disease, cancer or aids for example. The animals' lives are not as important as human lives. But that is still not a good reason, and this is because the testing on animals is not essential. There are many ways of finding a cure or conclusion to scientific problems, without using animals. Then why don't they use these ways of testing? Sadly enough, the answer to that question is money. It is much cheaper to use animals than to do experimentation in other ways. On top of that, the people who perform the experiments don't care if the animals are suffering.
	If we all think about what we appreciate in life, we probably think of goodness and love. The only thing I want to point out is that this goodness and love should concern all living beings. And as humans, we are all responsible for what goes on in our world. Take a look around. Have we done well so far? It's time we take this responsibility seriously, and stop the unnecessary animal experimentation.
</doc>