<doc.id=0198.a2>
<title> Take a decision now. </title>
In this essay I am going to talk about the position of the European Highway four (E4) in Uppland, and especially in Uppsala. There has been a discussion since the 1960s about moving the highway out of Uppsala and to make a new construction of the road section between Mehedeby and Uppsala. Everybody seems to be agreed that something has to be done but it has not been possible to reach a decision about where to place the new road section. This discussion has to come to an end. My suggestion is that we shall have a referendum in Uppsala County in this issue. In that way the will of the people who are concerned will be showed. In this essay I will concentrate on what I think is the main reasons to get a decision now and why I think so.
 	The main reason of why the highway shall be moved is that people suffers. By that I mean both the people who lives along the highway and those who are involved in all the accidents which happens in this road. The highway in its present condition has a very high rate of accidents. Its standard does not correspond in any way to the large number of vehicles using it. The highway passes through several communities besides Uppsala with reduced passable and large problems of road safety. The length through Uppsala County may today be seen as a bottleneck in its connection between the north of Sweden and the area of Uppsala-Stockholm. This bottleneck often leads to dangerous and irresponsible driving with accidents as a result. These accidents cost a great deal, both in human suffering and purely economic.
	The costs are another main reason to why I see it as an urgent issue to take a decision now. One can wonder how much all these discussions, investigations and delaying has cost our community. One of the alternatives of a new road construct is the eastern proposition; it would be safer and less expensive than the western proposition. To me the eastern alternative sounds like a natural choice. Other arguments in this discussion are that the new highway in some alternatives is going to disturb eradicate threatened animals and that roadwork is going to take place in one of the greatest areas of ancient remains in Sweden. I do understand these arguments but to me human suffering and safety are more important. One other result of the accidents on the highway is that the police have to watch over the distances between vehicles. This is also a cost and perhaps the police are better needed some other place. 
	This has also become a cost to the whole country now, and that is just because our local politicians cannot decide by themselves where to construct the new highway. This issue is now a case for the government and the Swedish national road administration. This is unfortunate for us in Uppsala County, because these authorities work without any special consideration to our County's wishes. This is the reason to why I suggest we shall have a chance to tell our wishes in a referendum. It may also decline the contempt of politicians that is so common today. 
	In conclusion I would like to say that we have a great deal to win by take a decision now, so we can go through with the construction of a new highway as soon as possible. We need a new road to be able to securely and simply transport goods and people through Uppsala. This new road is going to cost a great deal of money, so it would be stupid to spent any more money on further investigations. Let the people say their wishes. Over thirty years of debate is more than enough. Let us take a decision now.
</doc>