<doc.id=0201.a2>
<title> What does the Royal Family has to do with democracy? </title>
Sweden is, in my opinion a fantastic country. We have everything, the best sex equality, legal right of access to private land, freedom for the people and we have a democracy that works. We are raised in a free country were everybody is equal. We should be very proud of all this things. The Swedes are a happy people. But there is one thing that is not right with this picture. What does the Royal Family has to do with democracy? 
	 Here in Sweden we tell our children that all people, irrespective of skin colour, what their parents do for a living, if they are handicapped or not, are equal. No one is better than the other. We even have it written in our constitution. What message do we send to our children when it is obvious that the Royal children are smarter than the rest of the children in Sweden? The whole Royal Family is better and has a greater value than an ordinary Swedish family. The monarchy is contrary to the Swedish way of living, our "policy". It is one thing if you have studied and have got an education that will make you earn a lot of money. Then you have done something, you have worked hard to be someone. That is fair. But what have the Swedish King done to deserve his life? He is born to it. Is not this obsolete? It does not fit in in our modern Swedish society. My thoughts goes a long way back in time to the old "farmer society", when the social classes were extremely important. The Royal Family of Sweden is a relic from the past.
	 Since Sweden is a free, modern and equal country should not we be able to decide who we want to represent the country? It is us, the people the King and the Royal Family are representing. Wouldn't it be better if we voted for the person we wanted for king or queen? Are we not intelligent enough to decide this our selves? Sweden shall have a person that have achieved something, someone who have to work his or her way to the top. A person we can be proud of. A man or woman who is like us, who is one of us. The King is not one of us, he is absolutely not one of the people. We need a human beeing that we could identify our selves with and relate to. 
	 Another aspect of this is the taxes, why should the Swedish people's taxes go to the Royal Family? In this country we need better schools, better geriatric care and a lot of other important things. The people should not have to pay for this family. I am certain that a lot of people would agree with me if I say that we do not need this kind of representation. Representation is of course very important but the kind of representation we are dealing with here can be done by someone else, like a President for example. We need the money to our selves. Maybe it is not large figures, but it is the principle. 
	 Sometimes when I am at my hairdressers' or at my parent's house I read this women-gossip magazines and I have to admit I really enjoy it. I read about the boyfriend of the Princess for example, and I often think that it is very interesting. But it is not important to me or to anyone else to know about this people. The purpose of the Royal Family these days has become to entertain a very small group of people, very often old women. But isn't that all we get out of them in a modern society of today? To be honest, is the Royal Family of Sweden really that necessary?
</doc>