<doc.id=1007.a2>
<title> Abolish the Monopoly </title>
I have chosen to discuss the Government's policy regarding alcohol. At present the Government holds monopoly on selling alcohol. They claim that there can not be a free market on alcohol because that would increase alcoholism. This is cited as the main reason for the policy. The income supposedly covers expenditure on alcohol related illnesses and crimes. However the income is far greater than the expenditure, this means that "Systembolaget" has become a very profitable buisness indeed. This issue is special as every person living in Sweden has an opinion regarding the subject. The majority want to be able to purchase alcohol at local stores such as the supermarket. 
 Furthermore this is not only a finacial issue. In my opinion the Government is supressing the individual freedom and functions as an overprotective guardian. Recently Sweden became a member of the EU. EU law states that monopoly is forbidden in EU- countries. So hopefully the monopoly will be abolished. As a result of the monopoly the Government are free to set whatever prices they wish. It is not unusual that productprices are increased with 300 per cent. 
 My opinion is that the Government must abolish the law that gives them the exclusive right to sell alcohol. When Sweden became a member of the EU we agreed to abide EU laws. The Swedish Government can no longer justify this monopoly if it wishes to be a responsible member of the union. I belive in the freedom of choise and the Government should not take advantage of the power the people have given them. This "big brother" mentality shows that the Government has very little faith in the Swedish populations ability to make healthy decisions in consumption of alcohol. If the Government will still maintain the monopoly they are basically saying that Swedish citizens can not hold such responsability. 
 It is my conclusion that this has nothing to do with alcohol consumption levels. It has to do with the Government foresaking freedom of choise for finacial gain. Why else would they maintain the monopoly, when voters want free market. The Government's declaration of incapacity towards the Swedish population must be abolished. This is want I want to point out. That alcohol is just an example of the Government's betrayl to the voters.
</doc>