<doc.id=1031.a2>
<title> Capital Punishment-the Governments Mortal Sin </title>
Opening: We all know that nobody has the right to kill another person. With that in mind I'm questioning the capital punishment. If it is wrong to kill, how come the death penalty is still performed in some countries?

Capital punishment has probably existed in all countries.
It wasn't until the 16'th century that people started to work against the death penalty. Capital punishment still exists in for example Iran, Saudi Arabia and the United States. Today organisations like the UN and Amnesty International put a lot of effort in their work against this punishment.

Supporters of the capital punishment would probably say: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. By that they mean that a person who has commit a crime should be punished with the very same crime. If you have commit a murder you should be murdered, is a common opinion among supporters. Regarding rapists, should they be raped? Should a robber be robbed?
Should the executioner also be executed? He/she has in fact killed another person, even if he/she is protected by the law.

Supporters often say that death penalty will stop people from commiting crimes of violence. But the execution is a act of crime, and we all know that violence breeds violence.
 
Death penalty is wrong, nobody has the right to kill. The punishment is irrevocable, and as long as justice isn't infallible, there is a risk of sending innocent people to death. That has happened and it could happen again.

Death penalty discriminates. It is used in a disproportionate way against poor people, minority groups and members of ethnic and religious groups.

Capital punishment is different from other forms of violence and insults, for instance torture, because it isn't either denied or hidden. It is all under government auspices. That makes killing legal.

The only thing both sides has in common is that nobody should be sentenced to death without a waterproof evidence. But it should be mentioned that 24 innocent people has been executed the last 100 years.

Violence of human rights. Genocide. War crimes. Treachery and espionage. All these crimes lead to civilians death and destruction. These crimes should have a very severe punishment. Unfortunately, lifetime in Swedish prisons often means 10 years. There should be something between Swedish "lifetime" and capital punishment like penal servitude for life. But everyone should have the chance to emancipation, if that is appropriate. Everybody deserves a second chance, people do change.

Final words: The capital punishment can probably be discussed for ever and ever. If you ask me, I would say that death penalty is wrong and that capital punishment makes it legal to kill. I also hope that the UN and Amnesty International will success in their battle against this punishment. 
Two mistakes does not make one right.
</doc>