<doc.id=1036.a2>
<title> Some Children have to Work </title>
For about one and a half year ago, it was discovered that one of H&M's subcontractors used child labourer in their fabric. The media gave a picture of H&M as an irresponsible concern which permitted employment of children just to be able to sell clothes cheap and it was proposed that people should boycott them. Then, the H&M concern answered that they did not know anything about it and now when they knew, they should immediately stop it by closing the fabric. Of course, children should not be working. But one should not just shut up the fabric where they are working without considering the alternatives for them, which may be another even harder work or just hanging around on the street. Should not children have the right to work if that is the only way for them to make a living and to pay their school charges?

In this case, it was naturally easiest for the H&M concern to dissociate themselves from the whole thing and close down the fabric. The question is if that was the best thing happening for the children. That is not obviously the case. They actually work on a voluntary basis and most of the children are happy to have a job so that they can help to earn their family's living and go to school. All children do not have the same opportunity to go to school as we in the Western World have. Children in poor families may need to pay school charges which their parents can not afford. Some children may not even have a school to go to. Then, it may be better for them to have a job than to have nothing at all to do. As a matter of fact, some parents want their children to work, just so they will not have the chance to start with drug habits on the street.

When I am saying that a work may be good for poor children, I do not mean all kind of works. I know that there are a lot of very hard, abominable places of work and such work should not be permitted at all. One should endeavour to stop all employment of children but during the circumstances today, it is impossible. People in developing countries do not have the same standard as we have. Consequently, their children may have to work.

In conlusion, employment of children is not good. However, it is the best thing during certain circumstances. My point is that one can not just shut up their place of work on the pretext of "children are not supposed to work", without doing something else about it. As long as we do not help them in some other way, so that they can make a living and go to school without working - they do need their works.
</doc>