<doc.id=1039.a2>
<title> POSTPONEMENT IS WRONG </title>
-Do what you have to do right now, or you will make time disappear.

INTRODUCTION
We all know it's wrong to avoid things like cleaning and studying. So why do we always postpone it until it's absolutely necessary? It only makes us feel bad and the things we want to avoid get worse.
I have discovered, by my own experience, that postponement makes time disappear.
If you have something you must do, every single minute you postpone it is useless. Time is lost until you have done it.
THINGS WE LOVE TO POSTPONE
A thing we definitely avoid as long as possible is cleaning. I have never met anyone who likes cleaning.
Cleaning is not difficult but it takes time and it's boring. But it's great when it's done, and the longer we avoid doing it, the worse it gets.
The things we want to avoid often have those points in common. For example exercise. Eventhough some people actually enjoy it, most of us make up the most stupid excuses for not having to do it: 
* "Oh, I have recently had a cold"
* "Real trainingshoes cost too much"
* "I haven't got time"
We have heard them all... But why do we act like this? Exercise doesn't have to take a lot of time, and it will definitely make us feel better.
I think that every time we postpone something we unconsciously hope that it will disappear. We hope that we won't ever have to do it.
Haven't we all felt that way about studying... Let's say you have an exam in three weeks. At first you think you have plenty of time. You can even repress the fact that you will have to study. But it won't take long until you will start thinking of the exam. You feel that you should study. And when the guilt has arrived, it's there to stay. Nothing is fun to do, because you know what you really ought to be doing. But you still repress it. Not as sucessfully though. 
Soon you won't be able to plan anything: "I can't go to that great movie, it will take three hours. I can't waste that much time" But will you study? No. Probably you will think "I'll switch on the TV, just for a minute." and you will end up watching boring TV-shows for four hours. Shows you normally never would watch. You would rather read a book. But in this situation, starting to read a book feels like a step too big. Than you would admit that you won't study the next hour. It feels better to watch TV or maybe read a magazine "just for a minute". (= Hours)
When it's time to go to bed you realize four hours have disappeared. To no use.
And if you had went to the movie, you wouldn't have been able to enjoy it. You would just have felt guilty. That day is lost forever. So you go to bed. But will you sleep well? No. You lie there, thinking of the exam. Now you kind of start worrying: "How will I ever learn what I have to. I have so little time left to study."
Eventually you will start studying. But you are under stress, and that makes it more difficult to learn things. 
If you begin studying two weeks earlier you gain much more:
* You have enough time if something is more difficult than you thought it would be.
* You will learn better when you aren't under time pressure.
* You can do other things too, you won't have to study every hour of the day.
* You will have time to repeat, and you will remember what you have learned better.
And most important:
* You feel much better when you set to work right away.

CONCLUSION
Time does definitely disappear while you postpone things. Because even if you can postpone doing something, you can't avoid thinking of it. It will affect your life, because you can't really make it disappear. And don't forget that the longer we postpone things, the worse they get.
</doc>