<doc.id=1078.a2>
<title> Democrasy-it is in your hands </title>
Democracy is a wonderful thing we have in our country and it's not something you can take for granted. The number of participators in our elections at present are getting fewer and fewer and I wonder why?
	 Many people maybe feel that they can't be of any influence in the society today, I don't agree with that. If you want something to be different you must make an effort in trying to change it. 
	In our parliament today the Social Democrats has the majority and our country is runned towards the left, but every fourth year we have an election that makes it possible to change that. It's our responsibility to take a stand and then vote for the party that suits us the best. Democracy is not about a couple of hundred of persons making laws and deciding what's best for the country in their own point of view. They are there for your sake and it's you who placed them there.
	It has happened that a couple of our politicians have broken the law or behaved unethical which makes many of us loose faith in them. Remember that they are normal people just like any of us, it's human to make mistakes and if you feel that you're trust for the government is so low that it makes you don't want to vote for any of the parties then just vote blank that is the best way to show your disappointment. Otherwise there will never be any changes to the better. 
	Sometimes I hear people say that it takes too much of their spare time to be familiar with everything that are being discussed in the government, but there is a midway through this. If you read your morningpaper there is enough information to get you posted. So don't come and say it takes to much of your time when you can easily be informed while eating your breakfast. When it comes to the day of the election you are maybe out on a trip somewhere but if that is the case you can always vote by post which is an easy and fast way. 
	When we became a member of the European Union the "yes" side won with just a few more votes but since then I have never heard any positive thing about the EU. If you watch the news or talk to friends the reaction towards the union is everything but positive. I may be wrong about this but if everyone that had the right to vote in the election did that we probably would had said no to a membership. In most cases the ones that doesn't vote is the ones who are dissatisfied with the situation. Everyone new that we were getting closer to a membership and it is to late now to start criticising EU when we're already a part of it. Some say that our country is to little that our influence in the union is the same as slim to nun. It is true that we don't have much to say against the larger countries like Germany or France but if we were not a member would we have more to say then, I don't think so. There are many weak points in the EU now but it will grow stronger and let's hope it will be in a positive direction and we can influence that by choosing our favourite politicians to go down there and fight for our issues to be carried through.
	Democracy is our right in Sweden and many of us see it as obvious which is wrong. If you look in our history you can see that we haven't had this fortune for very long and if we're not more careful it's not that far away to go back to a dictatorship. Before any of that will happen I hope you're sensible enough to know that your vote is your voice in our society today. Make yourself heard and take your responsibility now before it's to late. If you don't I assure you that you will regret it.
</doc>