<doc.id=1103.a2>
<title> The winner of the battle between glasses and contact lenses: glasses. </title>
This assignment was to write an argumentative essay, and I did not know what to write about. After thinking long and hard I decided to write about the different aspects of glasses and contact lenses. I do not wear either one myself, but by looking at the aspects for and against both of them, I will show you why I think glasses are a much better choice than contact lenses.

First of all I want to write about the actual purpose with glasses or contact lenses. That is to be able to use your eyes without overstraining them and to see without problems. If you only have a minor problem with your eyes and only need glasses for reading, then you do not have a choice but to wear glasses. You cannot take the lenses out as soon as you do not read anymore, especially if you are in school attending a lecture where you first look at the blackboard and then in your books or writing-pad and back again. Neither can you have progressive contact lenses, only glasses. There are many kinds of cuts that you can have with glasses but not lenses, so therefor contact lenses are only for a limited clientele - the ones with the "correct defects".

I will continue by describing the troubles you can come upon with both glasses and contact lenses. Glasses can be in the way for example if you work out or if it is raining outside. But when you wear lenses you increase the danger of getting dry or red eyes, an eye disease or any other similar problem. It is unnatural to poke around in your eyes and glasses will help you to get around that problem. You can also wear glasses for much longer at a time without risking sore or dry eyes. Some people may say that glasses are more breakable, which is true, however, contact lenses are much more vulnerable. They are small, practically invisible and soft. It is easy to lose a lens if you are careless enough to drop it, or to get a scratch which makes the lens useless. 

When it comes to the costs you have one sum to pay for glasses but you have to get new lenses quite often and you also have the lens fluid to buy. Of course the cost depends on where you buy them and also if you happen to get unexpected costs by broken glasses or lenses. If your eyes suddenly get worse it might be easier to change contact lenses, but it is doubtful that the eyes would change so suddenly.

Last but not least I want to bring up the fashion. Both glasses and contacts have been an important accessory to today's fashion. You can change the color of your lenses, or even to get the Swedish flag in your eyes and you have thousands of spectacle frames to choose from. One might say that if you invest quite a lot of money in a pair of glasses you can only wear them as long as the fashion stays the same. I do not agree. You do not have to have the latest to be in style. You can use the same kind of glasses as your grandmother if you like and still be in fashion. Fashion is a state of mind and no one can tell you what to wear or not. Some people buy the latest from the optician's and change spectacle frames more often than others do. To them that is nothing more than a change in their outfit. I think it is fun to wear colored contact lenses - once or twice, but not every day. The eyes are the mirror of our soul and should not be changed. You do not change your looks at all if you wear uncolored lenses and that is one of the major reasons why people choose to have contacts instead of glasses. But to see people with different kinds of glasses makes me happy. Glasses make their whole face light up.

From what I can understand, to wear glasses is more sufficient for many more defects of the eye, it is cheaper, easier to vary and do not give you any extra troubles with your eyes such as dry eyes for example. You can through your glasses show who you are and change your overall look. I only wish I could have a pair...
</doc>