<doc.id=1104.a2>
<title> Stop the use of genetic engineering. </title>
Genetic engineering is when a gene is transformed from one species to another, to improve or to give it a new or a better quality. There are advantages and disadvantages with this technique but as long as we don't know the exact consequences, I think that we shouldn't use it at all. For example, this technique makes it possible for maize to produce its own insecticide and tomatoes can be more aromatic if we slow down the growing process. Well, this seems to be advantages but there are a couple of questions, for instance, how would the genetic engineering impact the surrounding environment? What happens with the biodiversity? What does it mean for allergic persons and what if the technique is used on humans? The final question that will be dealt with in this essay are the socio-economical results of the Green Revolution. 

Could gene modified plants impact the surrounding environment? Well, one risk is that the modified plant could become a weeds and therefore a problem both in and outside the cultivated area. Another risk is that the new quality, in the modified plant, could affect other plants and the result could lead to unwanted effects on the ecosystem. The insect-resident maize could for example lead to distinction of an insect species in an area. Consequently, this could be devastating for the animals that depend on this special insect. Furthermore, the ecological risks with gene modified plants can be difficult to predict because it could take years before the effects shows.

Genetic engineering threatens the biodiversity. Biodiversity means the variety within and between species and ecosystems. Modified plants are usually cultivated in many places around the world, and therefore replace many natural plants. This would lead to a loss of genetic resources. We should be extra careful since the ruthless deforestation in the tropics has resulted in distinction of many species. There are a lot of species in the tropics today that we don't even know about. Therefore, will the genetic resources hidden in the tropics, be even more valuable when the use of genetic engineering increases. 

When a commodity is genetically modified, how could the consumers know if it isn't allergenic. Furthermore, what would this mean for persons who are allergic already. We won't know until they've tried.

What would happen with our world if we started to use this technique on humans, if we started to change the gene pools of humans? Technically this is possible today. In other words it would be possible to take away a gene and replace it with another. If this would be done by wrong people the results could be devastating. What would have happened if Hitler had had the opportunity to use this technique, would he have made humans with blond hair and blue eyes? However, to manipulate the human gene pool would be to restrict the biodiversity even more.

Today there are some visible impacts due to genetic engineering. The Green Revolution, which started back in the 1970s, was an attempt to increase the harvests in third world countries. With help from genetic engineering it was possible to increase the harvests of rise and wheat, but the new crops wasn't for free. It was only the rich farmers in the third world that could afford to buy them and consequently they sold the outcome on the world market, because the people in the third world couldn't afford it. What started as a good intention led to more starvation for the already starving people. This is an important socio-economical consequence which shouldn't be forgotten about when we try to increase the world production of food with help from genetic engineering. 
Conclusion

Although there are some advantages with genetic engineering, like insect resident maize and tomatoes with more aroma, the disadvantages are in the majority in my opinion. I don't think that it is worth risking the biodiversity or that a modified plant spreads to other ecosystems, just to have better tasting tomatoes. Above all I wouldn't risk that the technique gets into wrong hands and we get humans whose gene pool is manipulated after a special pattern. So, as long as we don't know the exact consequences I think that we should be extremely cautious and don't use the technique at all.
</doc>