<doc.id=2007.a2>
<title> Systembolaget open on Saturdays - something to worry about? </title>
Sweden has a restrictive policy concerning alcohol. The goal is to decrease or at least retain the total consumption, and this is motivated by health care reasons. Since we joined the EC, this policy has become more difficult to live up to. An example is that the question about whether Systembolaget is to be open on Saturdays or not, is a topical issue today. Some shops in the country will be open as an experiment during year 2000. For many people, this is good news, while others are worried about the consequences. 
	I do not think that Systembolaget should be open on Saturdays. I believe that such a change in policy would make the situation worse for the victims of violence caused by alcohol, and I do not think that the arguments used by the spokesmen for extended opening hours do make enough sense to justify that. I am going to explain my standpoint in two ways; first by discussing the most reasonable argument for extended opening hours, and then by giving my view on why Systemetbolaget should be closed on Saturdays. 
	There are of course many arguments used by the ayes. But with today's knowledge about the social and medical problems related to alcohol, there is only one that makes any sense. It could be put like this: "Systembolaget have to provide better service or otherwise they will not be able to conquer with the illegal liqour trade. One way to do this would be to be open on Saturdays." The spokesmen for this point of view believe that, in order to prevent the negative effects of alcohol abuse, there is no point in limited opening hours as long as the black market is as strong as it is. A regained control over the market helps limit excessive drinking and also the number of young people with alcohol problems. This view is supported by Anita Johansson, who is a social democratic member of parliament, and Bertil Swartz, spokesman for the Swedish Brewer Association, among others. They are absolutely right in pointing out that illegal liqour is a problem. About 35% of the alcohol consumed in Sweden is sold on the black market. It is also shown that big consumers of alcohol buy illegal liqour to a relatively greater extent than others. And it is among these people most of the social problems are to be found. 
	Nevertheless, it is also a fact that increased obtainability causes an increase in consumption. And the total consumption in an area is strongly correlated to how many big consumers that can be found there, as shown by the French scientist Sully Ledermann, in a theory called "the model of total consumption". Therefore, the argument above makes sense only if the possible decrease in illegal trade should at least equal the probable increase in liqour sold by Systembolaget. However, this is poorly proved.
	Moreover, by using extended opening hours at Systembolaget as a weapon against black trade, it will take a long time before the regained control over the alcohol trade is a fact. Meanwhile, the total consumption will increase and many people will have their lives destroyed. Increased obtainability cannot be the best way of dealing with the illegal liqour problem.
	A crucial point that is overlooked in the argumentation discussed above is that in spite of all that is said about illegal liqour some of the domestic violence is still caused by liqour sold by Systembolaget. That problem can in no way be dealt with by opening on Saturdays.
	This leads to what I think is the main advantage of the system we have today. It is perhaps a not well-known fact that many alcoholics drink most in the middle of the week. This is simply because it is too boring to go to Systembolaget on Fridays, and impossible in the weekend. I am now talking about those who do not buy illegal liqour (being an alcoholic does not necessarily mean being a criminal). Thanks to this, some families of the violent addicts sometimes might have a "free Sunday", when they do not get beaten up. 
	Of course there are also medical and economical reasons to limiting the obtainability of alcohol, but I think that sympathy with the victims of domestic violence is still the most obvious one. The personal advantages of Systembolaget being open on Saturdays, such as personal freedom and comfort, are luxuries not defendable in this context. Go on living as we do now is a tiny sacrifice for lucky people who do not have serious social problems, if it can help only one person from getting beaten up or killed one day. It is a question of solidarity.
	The conclusion must be that our restrictive policy concerning alcohol must remain, and that the illegal alcohol market must be dealt with in other ways than allowing Systembolaget to be open on Saturdays.
</doc>