<doc.id=2026.a2>
<title> A NEVER CEASING DEBATE </title>
An often-debated topic in Swedish schools, is capital punishment. Even thought this topic has been thoroughly discussed, concerning the aspects of moral, economic issues, and that it is cruel, inhuman, and degrading punishment. I would like to highlight some other aspects. My opinion on the topic is neither black nor white, but somewhere in the greyarea. I hope to clear, why I am not sure of my position and one of the reasons, is surely:
	An aspect that I have just recently heard of against the death penalty in the United States is that some states are discriminating on racial issues, which to me is scaring. Judges and attorneys, who are elected or appointed, they should be blind, like the statue of the judicial system claims to be, especially in a democratic country, which everyday claims not to judge by race, sex or religious beliefs. This does not only accrue in the US, but what is more frightening is, that a rich country like the United States of America cannot guarantee a fair trail. 
	Another aspect of capital punishment is that of children, by that I mean humans under the age of 18 years old, who are sentenced to death. More than one hundred countries have laws specifically excluding the execution of child offenders. Although six countries have executed children in the 1990's. Among this countries are Saudi Arabia, Iran, Pakistan, which are all ruled under Islamic laws, which means they follow the rules written down in the Qu'ran. There it does have a deterrent affect. I think you cannot compare these countries with for instant the USA! The States have executed ten children in the 1990's. I do not believe that a person of the age of eighteen years is mature. Therefore, I think if you are going to have the death penalty, you must not have it as a mandatory sentence. Should we not protect and help or treat children, who have committed a crime and give them a second chance? 
	A third point of view is that almost half of all the countries in the world still have the death penalty in their lawframes, though not all of them use it. I would like to focus a bit on Thailand and Singapore. In 1996, the first execution took place in nine years in Thailand. This execution was supposed to set an example for other inmates, according to the Ministry of Interior. Scientific studies have consistently failed to prove that the death penalty deters crime more effectively than other punishments. Moreover, as for the deterrent affect in Thailand in 1996 120 people under sentence of death had their sentences commuted to life imprisonment in a Royal Pardon. However, this did not include people convicted of drug offences! On the contrary, Singapore has since 1994 executed well over 150 people for drug offences, including many foreigners. Despite the mandatory use of the death penalty for those convicted of drug trafficking, drug addiction has increased in Singapore. Drug addiction rose with 30 % between 1990 and 1993, according to Singapore's 5 rehab-clinics. According to, Amnesty International Singapore probably executes more people than the reported figures and that they do not get a fair trail before being executed. 
	To summarize my essay I would say, I am basically against the death penalty, but when I try to put myself in to the context of me getting abuse or killed, or anyone close to me, I start to wonder if I wouldn't want that person to be executed? Just a few days ago, I discussed the death penalty with some friends. One of them was against it in every aspect, the other one was for the death penalty for serve crimes, which she categorized been serial killings, where a person had committed more than one murder. I do not believe that the death penalty is actually a penalty for these people, because I do not think they cherish life that much. However, in the subjective position I think if the offender was over 25 or so, I would probably think he deserves death, if he did not have any mitigating circumstances like a terrible childhood or mental illness. So I would say that I am for the death penalty, if we could have perfect circumstances and being 100% sure, through technical evidence. However the world will never be prefect, therefore I think we should abolish the death penalty and find a better solution.
</doc>