<doc.id=2046.a2>
<title> Cut downs: The physical education is not seen as a high priority. </title>
In December 14 1993 the Swedish Parliament agreed on a new curriculum for both compulsory school and upper-secondary school. This included that the lessons in physical education would be largely reduced, from 537 to 460 hours during the whole compulsory school. Naturally the new proposal gave rise to many objections, according to an opinion poll, 83% were against the cut downs and 51% wanted an increase of the number of lessons in the physical education. Despite all objections the new regulation passed and it applies as from 1st July 1995, with a stronger focus on theory and health. In other words the new concept for the physical education stimulates the pupils to see a connection between lifestyle and physical activities, and make them realise how they can increase their qualifications to a good health. The new emphasis is great but it shouldn't have to compete with the practical activities. 

The politicians have to take their responsibility and give the school more capital and resources, so the school can give priority to the pupil's health and study results. Of course, all children have a great demand for motion and physical activities and since they spend a lot of time in school, the school has also an important role to provide for these needs. Therefore, the school should try to integrate the physical education (focusing on health) with other subjects to get the pupils to learn in a context. When it comes to the learning, children require physical activities to become aware of their body and learn how it works and also for personal development. For instance, research has shown that children who exercise regularly have a good knowledge in theoretical subjects and better study results, than physically inactive children. In other words, that makes that the other subjects in school would only benefit by more physical education, because exercise give the pupils more energy, better abilities to concentrate and make them more efficient in studying. 

The physical education in school, is for a large group of children, the only chance to exercise in today's society. In 1960s 80% of the children exercised more than once a week, while the number today has declined to 50%. In addition to this, many alarming reports also show that many children today are out of condition, have bad eating habits and are growing fat. The physical activities and sports have got competitors from more sedentary activities like television and computers. Another reason is, that all children haven't got the same qualifications to exercise in the spare time, mostly because of socio-economic differences. The children, who get the best conditions to take part in physical activities, have interested parents with access to money, car and time. That is why it's especially important that schools in areas with a large number of low-income families get extra support to teach the children the significance of a good health.

An investment in children's health today will become a great advantage in the future, both in an economical and a social perspective. Considering our comfortable way of living today and all sedentary activities, it's very important to educate the children and give them many opportunities to learn how to create a healthy life-style, which suits them the best. In the latter decade problems like anorexia, bulimia and doping have increased and to prevent that problems like these come up even more we have to start building up higher self-esteem and better health among the children. In the future this will result in both socially benefits and profits. When it comes to the social perspective, I think that most physical activities teach children to communicate and to build up a spirit of community, which result in healthy and positive people who enjoy life. Therefore, the costs for medical treatment and the number of absence due to illness will decrease and the profits can be invested in further health-projects. 

To sum up, the physical education is a necessary part for the children's development and an opportunity to movement and activities different from the common classroom lessons. In other words, it's very important that the school can provide the children good qualifications and make them see the importance of physical activities and a healthy lifestyle. Therefore, is integrating a perfect way to vary the education and mix physical activities within the other lessons. Unfortunately, research show that many children don't have the chance to exercise in their spare time and that overweight, bad eating habits and bad condition are getting more common among children, but hopefully this would be enough evidence to start realising the value of the physical education.
</doc>