<doc.id=2062.a2>
<title> An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. </title>
Can killing a person be a solution of a problem in any situation? I do not think so. Of all the evil things that some people do, I find it very hard to see that the right punishment for that should be death. If we punish people for killing other human beings and judges them to death penalty, then we are as bad as the killers. Or is it possible to say that one murder is not as bad as an other, and that some people are worth more than other. Can you put a price on someones's life, and then if you had a lot of money you could pay and get your life back? I will in this essay clearly explain why I have come to have my opinion about capital punishment. I think that no one has the right to take someones life and therefore we should not allow capital punishment. Of course some people in this world seems to be nothing but evil, but still that do not give me the right to take their lives.
	 I do not think that I ever will be able to kill another person. So could it then be alright for me to think that death penalty is the right punishment as long as there is someone else who is pulling the trigger? Of course not, how could I let some one else do the "dirty" work. Some times I get really afraid when it does not seem to existe any limits for what evil things that some people can do. It looks like if the more horrible thing that they can find out to do the better. Of course you might ask what good it makes to spare that murderer's life and I have no other answar to that then than killing can not possibly be the solution to any problem.
	 To kill a criminal instead of dealing with the broken person that probably is hiding behind the crime is according to me the easiest thing that the society can do. No one cares enough to save a murderer's life. It costs a lot of money to provid some kind of rehabilitation, and some of the murderer you might not be able to help. But at least you could try. I do not think that the prisons of today are a good place to be if you are a criminal, you just get a really good chance to learn more bad things to do from the other prisoners. The condemneds have so much time when they are in prison, so why can we not let them do something useful for the society instead of learning new crimes. Of course it is very important to make the system safe so that no one could hurt another.
	 At last I would like you to think about a situation that happens sometimes. A person, might be at the wrong place at the wrong time an gets accused of murder. Than an innocent man/ woman gets the death punishment and perhaps the truth is not realized until there is to late. In this case a person that could have lived a long and happy life does not get the chance just because we think he/ her is guilty. Is it possible that a person with a lot of money is worth more than a poor. There do exists cases when a rich person who commits a murder gets away with it and a poor person who might be innocent gets convicted and gets the capital punishment. You might say that this is just a coincident but I would like to say that in the world that we are living money is power. So in this case it is possible to buy freedom.
	 Our life is a gift that we have been given. Most of the time we just live and do not have the time to stop and think about it. That is probably a good thing for hopefully we are living a good and happy life. Just the thought of taking another persons life to let justice be done make me questioning the future of this world. No one has the right to take another persons life, it is just as easy as that. If we want to put an end to the violence that exist in society then society can not be as bad as the criminal. We can not compare an eye for an eye with a life for a life because if we do that then we are human beings in great danger.
</doc>