<doc.id=2064.a2>
<title> Reintroduce the borrowing of course literature </title>
In November 1999, the Student library in Uppsala made the decision that all borrowing of course literature should be stopped, in order to save money. This upset many students, who would now have to get hold of their literature in other, less efficient ways. This, I think, is not something that should be allowed to occur at a big, renown university like Uppsala, and in my opinion the permission to borrow course literature should be reintroduced. To only be able to read the books at the library is not a good solution for all students. 
	One point that argues against the fact that books should only be read at the library, is that not all students have the possibility to go to there during opening hours. Parents with small children may have difficulties being away from home more than a certain period of time a week, and students who live far away from the university, maybe even in another city, or those who have lectures during opening hours, are all unable to access the books. For these students, the possibility to have books on loan and the opportunity to read them at home, may for them be essential in order to pass the course. Those in favour of the prohibition maintain that more people will be able to read the books when not only one person has got access to them during a longer period of time. This may be true, but still, for students who don't have the possibility to go to the library regularly, it is unfortunately not a solution that is in their interest. 
The lack of enough seats at the library for all students, is something that also argues for the fact that the library should allow students to borrow books. If the argument that more people will have access to the books is true, then presumably this will also mean that the number of students that will need a place to study, at the library, will increase. Since the amount of places will not be increased, the number of students that compete for a seat will get higher, and then not all books available to read will be, even though there are several copies on offer. Also, those who need to use the books the most will not have the opportunity, because they will not be able to compete for the copies in the way that students who have regular access to the library can.
A way of saving money is borrowing the course literature. And even though many like to buy their own literature, course books are often very expensive and since the study allowances are not that high, a popular alternative is borrowing. Many courses have got a large amount of books that are included in the obligatory literature that students will need for their course. Because of that, many depend on the fact that they have always been able to borrow their books from the library, take them home, get to read them properly, and take notes. Additional literature and handbooks are often seen as an extra cost, and are therefore more often borrowed than bought. 
To many people, borrowing course literature is very important. Not all have the possibility to go to the library during opening hours, and the lack of seats will also make this impossible for the large amount of students who will be needing a seat at the library. Money, of course, is another argument, and I believe that the possibility to borrow course literature should be reintroduced in order to give the students a wider choice in how they get hold of their literature. After all, the university in Uppsala is supposed to offer their students the best, and the Student library should therefore be able to have course literature that is available for home loan. The saving of money should try to be made in other areas and not at the expense of the students. A library should not only be a place where people can sit and read books, but also an institution from which books can be borrowed.
</doc>