<doc.id=2072.a2>
<title> Student loans: A lifetime in debt </title>
Loans to finance our nations students? To me it seems quite like a contradiction. Who would prefer a lifetime in debt just so you can go to school? Well, I believe that any normal person with common sense would answer nobody on the question asked. Furthermore changes ought to be done such as give students grants instead of loans. What is more important is that Sweden as a country would become more internationally successful, which could enhance our economic status both abroad and perhaps even more importantly our domestic situation. 	Lets take a look at the situation today: If you manage to get a job after graduation at the age of eighteen you may consider yourself very lucky and even more if you find a fulltime job. The main problem ofcourse is money. What to do? You cannot parasite on your parents for ever and you do not want to become a bag-lady. Higher education somebody said, and you think you have the answer that solves all your problems. I want to become a Master of Engineering, it is an interesting and well paid job. In other words I will have four and half years of studies to look forward at, perhaps move to another city if required. Now we can start to look at the expenses of the project to come. Books and study material for four and half years, semester fees, travels, rents, and food to stay alive but these are not the only expenses because I am very sure students have a personal life too. 
	In some way students need to find money to cover all these expenses. What the state has to offer is a grant of almost two-thousand kronors which surprisingly for them is not enough however every student I have spoken to tend to agree with me. What are my options now? - I could ask my parents for some money but this is not really their problem now is it? I am sure they would like to me help out and it makes me feel as if the government thinks the same but I am an adult who cannot depend on my parents all the time. Perhaps if I took a part time job I could manage to pay my studies, and probably yes I would. On the other hand it says in the brochures that this education is a full time occupation so it is not reasonable to ask somebody to work more then full time just so he or she could make a living. Our options are narrowed down to the last one, the almost obligatory loan. To live a decent life most students will take the highest amount allowed, five-thousand kronors which gives you a total of seven-thousand kronors. Now everybody is happy and satisfied until the day when the state wants their money back. 
	After four and a half years of full time studies ex. students have approximately reached a debt of twohundredthousand kronors plus interest. This is a debt which hardly nobody manages to pay off during their lives as taxpayers. Luckily the debt is written off at the age of sixty-five when you retire as a pensioner. 
	You wonder if this is the thanks you get from the state when you could have lived on unemployment benefits watching TV and do nothing all day long. In contrast I pay the highest taxes on earth, and try to pay off my loan. In addition I am a jackpot for the state and I don't cost a penny neither. 	To sum up I believe there should not exist such a ting as a student loan, it is only an obstacle which many people will not manage to pass. With the taxes of today we should not have any problem with the finance of higher education students, in longer perspective society will only gain from this system. Instead of a lifetime debt as a repeler we should give higher education studies the same status as a regular job and pay the seven-thousand as a kind of salary.
</doc>