<doc.id=4019.a2>
<title> 	Earning by working </title>
This is a very difficult question but I shall try to explain why it's so important why unemployed people should have to work for their checks. I shall prove that all arguments against such a proposition is not large enough to affect the pro sides.
	 The main reason for having people work for their unemployment money is that you should earn what you get. You should not be able to get money for doing nothing, if you are healthy and able to work. This will make people try even harder to get a "real" job before they seek money for unemployment. They might take a job that they would not have taken if they got money for being home. Also if people have to work for the money it is not welfare and they can be proud over it, because they have earned it.
Another factor is that if they have a work, they can not take illegal job at the same time as getting money for being unemployed, and in that way getting double money without having earned it. Today it is possible to get money and at the same time working illegally. This money they receive could be used in other ways were they are more needed.
	 By working like this you also get experience and that gives you a better chance of getting a real job, than by just sitting home and doing nothing. This gives a much better impression of you when you seek a regular job. This is also a great chance to get into the working life again if you have been ill or unemployed for a long period of time. And you get "updated", maybe some things have changed since your last employment. Immigrants recently arrived to Sweden also gets a opportunity to learn Swedish faster and also see how the working climate of Sweden is. This will get them into the Swedish society much faster than today. This gives them a chance to get their new life started and become a part of society. The greatest problem for unemployed people is that they easily get depressed because you identify yourself with your job and you also meet less people when you don't have a job. They easily feel that they are worthless and doesn't contribute to anything. By having them work they get a routine of the day, meet a lot of people and do something meaningful.
	 The last argument for getting people to work for their unemployment check is that the public sector can get people to do jobs that before where voluntary. That could be jobs such as helping elderly people to get out and socialise, working in hospitals to cheer people up, maintaining flowers and bushes in public parks. Jobs that makes a difference in the peoples life that you get involved with.
Today those jobs are voluntary but I feel that they could be done much better if people have them as full-time jobs with a paycheque. These are very important jobs that the people which perform them is given a large responsibility and this is very important especially if you have recently lost your job and your confidence is not what it used to be. So it is not only good for the public sector it also develops people and make them into better human beings.
	 All these arguments states that working for your money is the only way to go, considering all the positive affects that this leads to. As every problem, there is also downsides to these arguments, but they are not big enough to affect the positive sides. This will prevent people from receiving money just by staying home and not trying to get a job because this is more comfortable. These jobs will develop people and make them grow as human beings. Having people work for unemployment money, means that they can raise the amount of money you get, and this leads to that you can get a better materialistic quality in your life as well. Today the checks are not very large and having to worry about money also results in depressions and low self-esteem. My opinion is that we shall introduce this as soon as possible and make our society a better place to live in.
</doc>