<doc.id=4033.a2>
<title> CAPITAL PUNISHMENT </title>
Capital punishment is used in some parts of the United States, and in a number of other countries around the world. In these countries the state is legally killing people who have committed murders. In other words, killing a person is legal if the person in question has killed another person. I would say that it is not morally defensible to kill a person because of a crime he or she has committed.

Instead of executing murderers I think that it is our duty to help them. Those who need societys help the most are those who commit crimes. They would not commit murders if they were not mentally ill in some way. If they are mentally ill, they need our help and we should not kill them. Some criminals may have had a very problematic and complicated childhood. They may have been badly brought up and so commit crimes. Everyone has a history that makes him or her to do such bad things to others. No human being kills another without such reasons. I can not believe that a normal person just walk along the streets and shoots someone just like that. Murderers, who do this, are ill in some way and we should help these people instead of punishing them. I do not say that a problematic past or being mentally ill is an excuse for committing a crime, but that they need our help. There is a proverb, which says: "Love me the most, when I deserve it the least, for that is when I need it the most". If we help criminals to get on the right track, they might change. Everyone can change for the better and the least we can do is give him or her the chance. We must help them get on the right track and not execute them before they are given the chance. 

Everyone has the right to live. The right to live is the most fundamental human right of all and you can not legally take this human right away >from any person. You can not say that anyone deserves to die, no one does. We all have the right to live, no matter who we are. As I said, I really think that every person can change for the better. Bur of course, taking care of all prisoners will cost society a lot of money. But is not human life worth more than money? I think that a human life is worth so much, no matter what! The persons who get executed have committed murder themselves, but still you cant execute the person because of this. If society had offered them help earlier they might not have killed anyone at all. No matter what it costs to get the criminals well again, we must get them well anyway. We must help each other, no matter what it will cost. When I was little my mother always said to me: "You are worth your weight in gold". That is how much we all are worth. We cant value money to human life. To value anything before human life is wrong. We must help prisoners to get on the right track, no matter what crime he or she has committed or no matter how much it will cost us. 

No person may have the right to kill another human being, no matter how serious the crime is that the person has committed. Why should society execute a murderer in revenge for the persons criminal past? What will that lead to for the population in the country involved and for humanity as a whole? I would say that it would not lead us anywhere. You cant solve anything by murdering the murderer. Nothing will ever change if we continue to kill each other. If we want to live in a peaceful environment, we must stop the killing, not legalize it.

I can understand the anger within a person whose friend or relative has been murdered. In some ways I can understand their obsession to kill that person in revenge. I also understand that they do not want to help the murderer to improve his or her life, since he or she has murdered someone close to you. I can understand all of this, but still I do not think it is right to execute the murderer. Instead I think we should help each other to make this world a better place for all. We will never have a safe society for our children to grow up in if we legalize killing and continue to execute the murderers in revenge. We must not kill each other! It is not ethically right! I am totally against capital punishment and I think we must abolish it.
</doc>