<doc.id=5007.a2>
<title> THE CARE FOR THE ELDERLY IS THE STATES RESPONSIBILITY </title>
Introduction:The question about how the elderly in our society should be taken care of is important. I have thought a lot about this and come to a conclusion that it is the states responsibility to take care of the elderly. 

If you compare our modern society today with what it was like 100 years ago, when most people were farmers and worked in, or near the home, it was natural that the elderly lived together with the family and could be taken care of in the home. Today people work or go to school away from the home, to make a living and it would be impossible to nurse an old person at home.

It is expensive and most familys can not afford the care for their olderrelatives. It can all so be difficult to nurse an old person if she or he have disabilities, suffer from an illness, like for example alzheimers disease or any other difficult medical illness that need special treatment in a hospital or by nursing staff. 

Another important thing is the nursinghomes, which in my oppinionoffers a high quality of care, even though exeptions exists. I think thestate must give more money to education for care of elderly as well as to the nursing homes. That will lead to higher salarys, more educatedworkers, a larger staff, because more people are incouraged to work inthe old-age care and that will in the end lead to better care. 

Some elderly wish to be nursed and want to live at home untill they die. This issue should be supported by the state and a possibility for those who wishes. There are elderly that does not have any relatives and they are in greater need of the state. 

There are however people that do not trust the state, because of the cases of mismanagement of elderly that the media brought up.Because of that, the state must concentrate and examine the carebetter. 

Conclution:It is the states responsibility to see to the elderlys need and supportthe familys in ur society which might want to take care of their elderlybut are unabel to do so.
</doc>