<doc.id=5042.a2>
<title> Give your child a good childhood </title>
With a reduced number of personnel at day-care centres and therefore larger groups of children, every child do not get the attention they are in great need of. This absence of personnel who dedicate time to each child can make the child feel insecure and can lead to aggressiveness and other mental disturbances. If you want your child to feel secure and if you want to be the one who give your child a good childhood, stay home from work and take care of your child the first couple of years of its life.
	 I think that more parents should stay home with their child the first couple of years of its life instead of letting some one else, or maybe no one because of the large groups at day-care centers, taking care of them. They main argument why you should stay home with your own child is the increase of the number of children who are supposed two be taking care of by every employee at a day-care center. If a child do not get the attention they are in demand of they can feel insecure. It is also hard to learn how to act in a variety of situations in life if you do not have anyone observing you and showing what is right or wrong. Maybe a small boy or girl do not know that he or she is loved if he or she has to spend the whole day without somebody taking enough care. This can lead to strange behaviour like agressiveness, introverted character or some other kind of disturbances. This is in the first place not good for, and very unfair to, the small boy or girl but do make things harder for the whole family and also have bad influence on the society. People with mental disturbances need a lot of help from relatives, friends and the society.
	 It is to be hoped that parents really do love their child and a god way of letting a child notice that is to stay home from work instead of letting someone else taking care of the upbringing. That is for one thing important for a small boy or girl. Small children have a biological need of being with their parents.
	 Parents probably require the presence of their child to. It is valuable for a mother or a father to get to know his or her child as good as possible, to have the feeling of being one of few people who really know that little boy or girl. The connection between parents and their child as a small child is very significant when it comes to future relationships.
	 The main argument against a society were most part of parents stay home with their child, would presumably be that parents have to go to work. From the economical viewpoint this could be hard but I think that a good solution of that problem would be to reduce the taxes for families with a small child or children, in fact this system works in Germany. Another way to make it easier for families with only one working parent, would be to give them some kind of allowance. If a great number of parents would take care of their own children the need of day nurseries would smaller and a big part the money that earlier financed day-care centers could be used as allowances to the parents. 
	 It could seem like a sacrifice by a mother or a father to abandon work and stay home taking care of a child but there are ways to combine work and time at home. If there are two parents in a family both could work fifty percent each and share the responsibility of taking care of a child. A single parent could try to co-operate with other parents.
	 There are, as described before, ways to make it work for a parent or parents who wants to raise their own child full-time but of course there are sacrifices in connection with it. I think this is a question of what a mother, or a father give priority to. If parents do not want to jeopardize their careers because of a child maybe they should question if they are the right persons to have a child. I think the most important thing when it comes to giving birth to an infant is to do the best to give it a secure childhood.
</doc>