<doc.id=3511.b2>
<title> To Legalise Drugs is an Act of Lunacy </title>
In Henrik Sunné's article (UNT February 13 2001), he argues that we should legalise drugs to get rid of the Mafia in Sweden. He asserts that drugs are the Mafia's biggest source of income and that if we got rid of this source we would prevent the Mafia from spreading. He also argues that there would be less prostitution, fewer murders, rapes, robberies and drug addicts. Furthermore he asserts that no Swedish addict would pay hundreds of SKR for a specific amount of a drug if he/she could get the same amount a lot cheaper in a store. This is surely a very naive point of view and in this essay I will argue against his arguments and the legalisation of drugs in general.
	Henrik Sunné's first argument is that if we legalised drugs we would weaken the Mafia and prevent them from spreading, because drugs are their foremost source of income and the hub in their criminal business. His intention, to get rid of the Mafia, is good but it's a very stupid way to deal with this problem, it would bring a lot of other threats to our society. The Mafia would find something else to deal with to get the money they need to run their business. Examples of income sources might be illegal dealings with weapons, liquor, tobacco and smuggling of people. One good example of this is the Mafia that existed in USA in the 30s. Their biggest income came from smuggling liquor and this is proof that the Mafia will find other ways to get the money roll in. So to say that Sunné's idea, legalising drugs, would reduce the Mafia's income is not right. 
	According to Sunné, legalising drugs would also reduce the number of murders, rapes, robberies and drug addicts. This is the second argument he uses and also one that is completely wrong. Not fewer, but more, people would use drugs, because the drugs would be easy and legal to buy, and therefore there would be an increasing number of addicts. Sunné tries to connect today's rapes, robberies and prostitution with those who are addicts and that it is those who commit these crimes to get money they can buy drugs for. This might partially be true but there will probably be an increase in these criminal areas if the drugs were to become legal. This is shown in studies made in the Netherlands where these kinds of crimes have increased due to the fact that drugs are legal there. And these crimes would increase because of the way drugs effect people psychologically and not because they commit them because they need the money. Most addicts are often broke, isolated from the surrounding and those who are worst off have no contact with family or friends, which probably is a result of the way the drugs affect humans psychologically. So it isn't just the addicts who have to suffer but also the people in their surrounding. And these aren't things that go away just because you take a brake from drugs or quit using them completely. 
	This state of living would become more usual among our population if we were to legalise drugs. As we see in Sunné's last argument no Swedish addict would pay hundreds of SKR for a dose he/she can get in a store much cheaper. To make drugs available in stores would give a message to teenagers who probably would see it as if there is nothing wrong with doing drugs and therefore they might try it and that's an easy way to become an addict. There would be an increase in the number of teenagers who use drugs because even if they would put an age limit on buying drugs older people would always by for them. Today there are grown-ups who buy liquor for teenagers who aren't allowed to buy it themselves. This increase of young addicts would lead to more crimes, and society's cost for rehabilitation of the addicts would increase because more people would need rehabilitation. The cost for one addict is about 2000 SKR per night. 
	History also has a proof of that legalising drugs leads to more addicts and that it is a thing that no one can win on. In the middle of the 60s there was an experiment where we in Sweden legalised drugs. This experiment left catastrophic consequences with an enormous increase of heavy addicts and a lot more deaths as result. So this experiment didn't succeed and two years later drugs became illegal again. (Margareta Nyström ordf. FMN-Uppsala)
	In short no one will gain on legalising drugs. There will be more crimes and more addicts and it will be more expensive for our society. What we must do is to help the addicts and stop the dealers. To legalise something that is proven to be bad for your health and might even kill you is an act of lunacy. So instead of giving in for those who want the drugs to be legal we have to continue our fight against these menaces to society.

Article Summary
In UNT February 13 2001 Henrik Unné argues strongly for legalisation of drugs in Sweden. By doing this he thinks that we will get rid of the Mafia. He mentions that the Mafia kills innocent people, turn women into sex slaves and blackmail honest businessmen and that the Mafia's biggest income comes from their sale of drugs. So legalising drugs would prevent the Mafia from expanding. By legalising drugs, the Mafia's greatest income would disappear and it would threaten their existence. Furthermore he argues that there would be fewer murders, rapes, robberies and addicts and that no Swedish addict would pay hundreds of SKR in the street for the same amount of drugs that can be bought for only a couple of SKR in a store.
</doc>