<doc.id=3525.b2>
<title> THE EXPANSION OF UPPSALA </title>
The expansion of the centre and outskirts of Uppsala is a subject widely discussed in the newspapers. The expansion is defined in a plan called Vision Uppsala. The aim is to build 16.000 new apartments in the centre and outskirts of town before 2020.
	 Kollberg's editorial shows that a common opinion held among politicians is that the expansion is necessary if we want a dynamic and economically strong municipality attractive for the new business enterprises. The fact that green areas and parks will have to be turned into high-rise blocks, parking lots and roads are of less importance. According to Kollberg apartments must be built where people want to live. 
	 I can agree that more apartments are needed and that some areas in town could be exploited for this purpose in for instance Kungsmarken and Boländerna. 
	 In too many cases however an extensive expansion of the inner city is in conflict with the environment and what the citizens want. According to Mats Åkerblom's article (UNT 28/9-00) research proves that people want to have access to green areas within a distance of 300 metres from where they live. This demand will be difficult to fulfil since important and valuable recreation areas and relaxing green spots risk disappearing a little at a time if nothing is done to prevent it. Arguments about cultural and financial profit can thus be countered by pointing at lowered living conditions for the citizens. 
	 Heavy traffic is another problem that must be dealt with effectively. This is already a problem as it is. If Uppsala is to expand public transport has to be made an efficient alternative and measures must be taken to prevent traffic from increasing.
	 An argument often used in favour of the expansion and a problem that we are all aware of is that young people and students have big difficulties in finding somewhere to live. But the apartments that are being built are mainly not made for renting and are so expensive that young people cannot afford to buy them anyway. So the expansion does not favour those who would need it most.
	 In his article Åkerblom suggests that politicians and high officials are those profiting most from the expansion. Their power and privilege will increase with the growth of the municipality.
	 He also takes up another interesting issue not dealt with in Kollberg's editorial. He asserts that a quick and extensive expansion will be expensive for the taxpayers since the investments necessary in realizing this plan will exceed current taxation. The result is that the municipality must increase taxes. 
	 Many negative aspects can be found against a quick expansion of the inner city. My intention has been to point at a few of them mainly dealing with the environmental consequences that Kollberg thinks are of minor importance to the future of those who live and wants to live in Uppsala. People who move to Uppsala must be aware of the fact that the city will look very different if it is exploited to the extent, which is demanded.
	 I am like most people prone to act out of self-interest and that is why I want to take a stand against the new vision of Uppsala. I want it to be possible now as well as in the future to enjoy the green spots and the beautiful recreation areas available in Uppsala. I believe they are vitally important for our health and well being.

 In her editorial "En kommun i världsklass" Kerstin Kollberg claims that it is necessary for politicians to pass resolutions more quickly concerning an extensive expansion of the inner city of Uppsala. Uppsala is an attractive municipality for new business enterprises but Kollberg fears that the lack of new apartments in attractive areas will make business owners decide to establish themselves somewhere else instead. This would be a great economical loss for the municipality. She also remarks that students who want to study in Uppsala are often forced to choose other universities in other parts of the country due to the housing shortage. The failure of meeting these demands quickly enough is an impediment for the growth and development of Uppsala and that of Sweden in general according to Kollberg. She mentions that the expansion entails that some of the now existing recreation areas must be turned into residential areas. Many citizens in Uppsala are against this, which is one reason why the city does not expand as quickly as Kollberg and many politicians think it should. 

REFERENCES:
Articles from Uppsala Nya Tidning:

"En kommun i världsklass?"
	Kerstin Kollberg

"För vem ska Uppsala växa?"
	Mats Åkerblom, 28/9-00
</doc>