<doc.id=0107.a1>
When I am thinking about my experiences from the English lessons I had in school there's most bad memories. I have always been a quite hardworking student but during my English lessons there have always been a lot of nervous feelings and I haven't brought out much really. I am sure there are many different reasons why I felt this way and the main one is that I never really learned to use English as a form of communication. My teachers taught me the alphabet and how to use the ing-form but they never encourage me to speak and write in a suitable way. I always found the tasks to difficult which ended up in disaster. I thought that the only thing to do to solve this problem was to go to an English speaking country and improve my English. After my graduation from senior high school I packed my bags and went off to London and thanks to that important decision I am attending this course today. I would never ever done this without my year in England. 
	 So, how do I feel about using English today? Much better, that's for sure. I even like it! I never thought that I would be able to speak fluent English but during my stay in England it became easier every day and after a couple of months I even dreamed in English. Nowadays I don't feel uncomfortable when I have to speak, actually I like it even if it's sometimes difficult to find the right word or expression. On the other hand I find it more difficult to write, you have to be more correct and aware of the spelling. By the end of this course I hopefully will have improved my writing, though I think it's important to have a good grasp of the written language.
	 Reading is something I haven't paid much attention to, unfortunately. I sometimes regret that I didn't read more books when I lived in London but I didn't had enough time. To visit nice places and have a fun time was a greater temptation for me. I think reading is hard sometimes but if there is a subject which appeal to me it's easier of course. If you are interested in something you always tend to get more motivated. 
	 About listening I feel alright. We have had a couple of lectures and so far it hasn't been any major problem to understand. I have noticed that it's much more difficult for me to understand the American accent but hopefully I'll get used to it. 
	 When I put these four skills together it occurs to me that there are several different parts of the English language and I wish I'll have improved them all by the end of this semester. I didn't enjoy the test we had the first day, actually it frightened me off. When I left the classroom I felt useless and confused. I mean, I lived in England for 10 months and I didn't recognise the words! I thought the vocabulary test was far to difficult and I have no idea how to do to finally make it. It's kind of strange because when I speak or write I don't find it that hard to come up with appropriate words. So, after getting the test back today I can't say my self-esteem is high since I didn't scored enough to pass the recommended limit. The grammar test went better which I feel happy about so I will not let the vocabulary destroy this whole spring. I have to cheer up and do what it takes to pass this course. Even if I feel a bit confused about this and what the different classes will content I must say I am glad I am attending this course because I know I will learn a lot if I make enough effort.
</doc>