<doc.id=0123.a1>
It was about 13 year ago when I started studying English. In the beginning I didn't like it at all, it was too difficult and boring. But during the years I started appreciate the language. Now when I get this opportunity to get more knowledge in English I think of myself as privileged.
	 During the years I've been practising and improving my listening, speaking, reading and writing skills. And it's about time that I evaluate my knowledge.

	 I will start the excavation in my English skills with my strongest point. And that is listening. I don't think I have any problems understanding spoken English, and that probably comes from all the hours I spent front of the TV watching American movies etc. But on the other hand, is it really good English I learn from the TV? When I think about it, I don't have a problem understanding a conversation in the TV-serial "friends". But when I hear Tony Blair speak I really have to strain myself to understand him. That is because he's using a more formal language with all the political terms which I can't pick up from any TV-show. 
	 You can probably tell what I've been watching on TV by the way I that talk. In what words and expressions I'm using in my speech.

	 I think I speak fairly good English, but I still have a lot to learn. I lived one year in London working as a waitress, and that especially improved my speaking skills. Unfortunately most of my co- workers at the restaurant where just like me foreigners. So my language is still quite "poor" even if I've had a lot of practice, because you don't really improve when you only speak with other foreigners.
	 It was mostly French people working there, so after some time I noticed that I actually had put on a French accent... Besides I usually got more tips when I acted French instead of Swedish... So my conclusion from my year in London is that English people prefers French waiters and waitresses. 
	 I often had customers (especially Americans...) tell me "You have such a quit accent!" so I suspect I have a very Swedish accent that I have to work on. I also feel very insecure how to pronounce many words. Especially these I pick up when I read, words that people doesn't use very often in their spoken language.

	 I actually read a lot in English. Many times I prefer reading a novel in English if it's originally published in this language. In my opinion a lot can go missing when a book gets translated. A certain atmosphere that only the author can create, that disappears in an other language.
	 But still my vocabulary is not so good. Because when I read and come to words I don't understand, I just skip them. I never look them up in a glossary; I'm too lazy for that! 
I should really do that, and write the new words down. That could really improve my writing skills and make me more confident in spelling. I should do that because my big weakness is actually writing!

To be honest with you I don't even like writing in Swedish. During the Grundskolan and Gymnasiet I was always very strong in math and science, so I wasn't really bothered improving in other subjects (especially language). I suppose I have a lot to learn and make up for now... What I find most tricky about writing is the more formal language. It's hard to know what is formal and informal in English. (I hardly know the difference in Swedish..)

	 When I think back on all my hard work during the years of studying English, all those hours I must have spent trying to learn and all the frustration and anger that came with the homework...
I must say it was worth every bit of it! Now I can feel that I have a good grasp of it and if I go to an English speaking country I will do all right.
</doc>