<doc.id=1007.a1>
For almost ten years I've been studying english. I've always liked to speak english and other foreign languages. But I have to say that english is very close to heart. I've been to the U.K and I really enjoyed my time there. What I think is most important about english is not how well you know grammar or how many english books you've read. The most important thing is to be able to express yourself and to have an extensive vocabulary. If you know how to speak you'll manage in U.K or USA. Rather then knowing that I'man expert in grammar but I don't know how to express myself. But now back to MY english.
Listening: I'm very good at listening, I understand basically everything and I can hold a conversation on a high level. You can learn a lot just by watching the telly and avoid to look at the textline. I've learned a lot from British tv-shows." Emmerdale" was the show that helped me develop an accent. So the telly, films and records are good sources of learning. 

Writing: Isn't really my strong side. I do enjoy to write but my grammar isn't what it should be. Probably because I haven't had any real intrest in learning grammar properly. But I hopethis english course will boost my skill in grammar and structure. And then there is spelling. My spelling is not perfect which you've probably noticed. I know a lot of words but I don't know how to spell them all. Sure it's easy to look them up in a dictionary but if you've got inspiration to write, it's frustrating to look up every word. My spelling isn't shit but it's not good either. So hopefully I'll have better knowledge in spelling by the end of this course.

Reading: Is not a problem to me. I understand and I enjoy reading. One of my favourtie authors is John Steinbeck and I've red his books in english. I also read a lot of english magasinze, especially the music-press. These magasinze are more "modern" than let's say the Times. They use a different kind of language which appeal to me. And they bring up subjects that I find intressting. 

Speaking: Is really my strong side. As I said, I can hold a conversation on a high level. And people have actually taken me for english, when I put my accent on that is. I don't mean to sound cocky but if people from England can't hear any diffrence on me and areal englishman that would have to be the best grade one can get. So there is nothing wrong with my selfconfidence when it comes to speaking english. I feel that I need a good accent and an extensive vocabulary since I have a lot of british friends. That is probably why I find U.K so interesting. Love the people, love the language and I love the country.
</doc>