<doc.id=1042.a1>
In this relatively short essay I, <name>, intend to explain several of the strengths and weaknesses of my English. Since it indeed is an evaluation of my knowledge, I will - hope-fully - also be as sincere as possible. It's not always an easy thing to point out your own flaws, although I do have quite a good picture of what it is that I'm "good" respectively "bad" at. In any case, the reader will at least see some of my writing and grammar skills in this text.
Since students taking the A2-levels indeed have been encouraged by their tutors to be as short and precise as possible when writing their evaluations, that is exactly what I intend on doing. 
How is then my ability to properly perceive spoken English? To make a long story short, I would like to say that I feel pretty confident about my abilities to listen and properly perceive the English language. This assessment of mine is based on several experiences. 

First of all, I believe that my early years behind the pale-blue screens of computers - playing English "text-adventures", that is - combined with a healthy dose of English from the media, has given me a stable foundation of understanding spoken English. This combined with occasional trips to Great Britain I believe has particularly given me a good idea of different dialects and ways of pronunciation. This I believe to be true whether listening in conversat-ion, or to a BBC broadcast. This naturally also gives one a good ability to learn new words. But there are, naturally, also things that could be improved in my listening abilities.

The main thing that I believe should be improved upon regarding my listening abilities is not quite easy to define. I do feel quite confident to pick up and properly understand most English that I come across. However, there are naturally some dialects of English that I have problem understanding, namely Welsh and perhaps some Scottish variants. However, trying to achieve the ultimate goal of understanding all spoken English, I naturally should hear and speak more English myself. Hopefully this will be improved upon during my forthcoming stay in GB. 

The main strength that I believe that I've got regarding reading works in the English language is without any doubt "experience". The fact that I read quite a bit of English literature - favourites are William Gibson, Douglas Adams, H.P Lovecraft, Arthur C.Clarke and Isaac Asimov - has, I believe, given me reading abilities and an extensive vocabulary. Reading does tend to have that effect on you. In my own opinion, my reading abilities in English are in fact almost equal to my Swedish, although dictionaries naturally often come to use.

What is it that I would like to improve upon my reading abilities then? Well first of all, the very thing that I believe is the "Achilles-heel" of my written English is the understanding of grammar. In this case, it's more of understanding the terminology that is used (see 2.8 Writing Weaknesses). Grammar is indeed important and needs, in my case, some extra work. 

What are my strengths in the area of speaking English then? Well first of all most people tend to think that I've got a fairly nice, plain English accent. Since I got into English at a pretty early age - thanks to my parents and computers - I also soon began trying to speak "real English". My teachers in the lower and later higher grade of school education also encouraged this. When I later attended summer school in Oxford I also got to do the graduation speech - something which I saw as an example of the fact that my spoken English was quite good.

If one disregards the upper attempt to show off a bit, I do believe that there are quite many things that could be improved in my spoken English. What are these points then? First of all, I sometimes tend to not articulate clearly, thus perhaps speaking a bit low. This is something which I am aware of and naturally tries to counteract with simply speaking louder and more clearly. The key to overcome this, I believe, is also to speak English as often as possible.

Of the areas of English, which we are supposed to describe, I would without any hesitation say that it is the written part - along with the reading part - that I feel most confident about. 
My main strengths here are in my opinion the understanding of how to build sentences and the use of common phrases and expressions properly. Extensive reading has also given me a large vocabulary, which comes to use when writing. What about my weaknesses, then?

The main thing that I would like to improve upon regarding my abilities in writing English can be concentrated into one word - "grammar". Thanks to - or again, perhaps not - the fact that I came in contact with English at such an early age, grammar was something that came more or less naturally. "Objective", "intransitive verbs" and "complements" were terms that one didn't even know existed. It all came naturally anyway. 

To quickly summarise the points above, I'd like to state the following facts: I do feel quite confident in the skills of listening, writing and reading. There are naturally some points that I would like to improve upon, such as understanding grammar terminology. I consider myself to be quite good at speaking English, although there are some work to be done on articulating and speaking more clearly and fluent.

Therefore I'd finally also like to state that I, without any doubt, would like to familiarise myself with the terms of English grammar a bit more. Get a hang of the terminology, so to say. It is English that I'm hoping to teach some day and grammar is naturally an essential part of the understanding of languages. It is, however, positive that I believe I do know some of my strengths and weaknesses. Then I'll have something to work on, improving my English.
</doc>