<doc.id=1067.a1>
<title> My English! </title>
	I thought I would do this essay the easy way by going through the different areas of the language one by one. For starters I will give a little historical summary. I have, as most Swedes been studying English for six years in the compulsory school and then for two years in the upper secondary school. I like the English language and it has always been easy for me to understand and speak it. My biggest weakness would be grammar which I've always had trouble with. The difficulty is not in applying the correct grammatical rules to my speech or to my texts. My problem is in understanding the contents and the rules of the grammar. It has always been so, even in Swedish and other languages which I have studied. Besides schoolwork I have been reading English in my spare time since six or seven years back. I am very fond of the work of the American author Dean R. Koontz and his books are a lot better in English than when they are translated into Swedish. This has given me a good vocabulary which has helped me a lot for example when I travel. Besides reading I also like watching movies, and this has also helped me in aquirering an understanding of the English (or rather the American) language.
	When it comes to my writing my strength would obviously be my resonably good vocabulary. I am also resonably good at spelling, and at determining how to spell words simply by hearing them. But since that is good in all aspects of the language I will also mention that I like writing and I would not mind being able to live of my writing, but sadly I have difficulty expressing myself. To putt words to my thoughts and putting things on paper has always been a bit of a snag. This has so far prohibited me from pursuing this dream. We didn't practise writing so much during my school years except for the annual essaytest in the normtests.
Listening to and hearing English is something that I am quite good at much thanks to movies and TV. Through these mediums I have aquired a good undertanding of the different accents. I don't really see that I have any weaknesses in this area except perhaps not being subjected to it enough in the normal day and in my surroundings.
	As I mentioned I enjoy reading if I find the reading interesting, if I on the other hand get bored by the text, I have a tendency to either put it away or just glance through it to get it over and done with. Since I'm a slow reader this usually means I can spend months on a book I don't really want to read. When I am reading though, I have a very useful skill that enables me to understand words I don't know the meaning of due to the context off the sentences and the texts in themselfs. This frequently teaches me new words even though I seldom look them up in a dictionary. 
	I have always found the English language easy to speak. There are no really strange rules about how words are pronounced as there are in the German, Spanish and Frensh languages. Again I have a somewhat big vocabulary which makes it easier for me to express myself. But I have a tendency to speak to fast and I often get stuck on words. 
	That, I think is all my pros and cons in the English language. Atleast it is all I can see in myself but there are certanly some that I am not aware of.
</doc>