<doc.id=1078.a1>
<title> English, My English </title>
English is in everyday life. If you watch TV or are out on the Internet you will always have the use of English. 
But how has my English developed through the years? 

I remember my first lesson in English. It was when I was eight years old. My sister and I shared room, since she is two years older than I am she studied English at school. So every evening when we went to bed she taught me what she had learnt during the day's lesson. I remember she told me what the colours was called in English and that purple and lilac was the same colour. At that time I got a bit fed up with listening to her every night. But when I started study English at school I already knew most of the things we where taught. 

The first three years of English study was easy. I didn't have to work much. But after a while school caught up with my knowledge. At the seventh grade it wasn't that easy anymore. But at that time my interests where somewhere else than in school. My problem wasn't speaking. I still found that interesting. When it came to my writing skils, it only got worse. Or more right to say the others got better. I didn't read much books either. You could say that most of the English I learnt was via English-speaking programs on the TV. 

When I started at the upper secondary school we had a test to show our english skils. From the results of that test we where devided into three groups. The first group did the A, B and C courses. The second group did A and B. The last did only course A. All groups had the same amount of time. I was placed in the second group. I didn't have a problem there, I rather say that it was a bit to slow. My teacher wasn't very good either. She was absent most of the time. We almost never wrote essays. We did some wordtests and read a couple of books. 
The strangest thing with my studies is that it doesn't feel like I have learned anything since sixth grade. I know I must have. 

More that contributed to my English learning is the time I spent abroad.
The first time I went to London I was seven. The only words I used then was "thank you very much". A few years later we went to Scotland then my vocabulary had extended. My sister and me talked a lot with people we met. Though their accent was a bit hard to understand I could converse with the Scottish people. 
When I was seventeen I did another visit to London. My sister had gone there to work for a year. I went to her pub a couple of times. At first I wasn't saying much but after a while I got used to listen and understood what they where saying. After that it was easy to talk. Sometimes they talked quite fast so it was a bit hard to hang on to everything they said. I was there only for a week.
Two years later I moved to London myself. I started working as a waitress in a pub in the City. The City is the place where all the stockbrokers, bankers and other types of businessmen work. At first it was hard to understand what the customers ordered. I didn't know the menu well and hardly any drinks. When I talked it felt like it took ages for me to get to the point. My manager was always in a hurry and when I had to talk to him he was always making me nervous. I stood there stuttering and he said: "Come on Sof I don't have all day."
A couple of month later everything went smoother. I knew the menu and my English had improved a lot. The best thing about working in the City was that most of our customers were English. So I learned the proper way of talking. I worked with two other Swedish girls but we were not allowed to speak Swedish to each other. At least nine hours a day I talked English.
To get to work took me about twenty minutes. On that time I started reading books. It was a good way to kill time on the boring trips to work. 
Five months later my place closed down. I went to Leicester Square to look for a job. My roommate worked there and she was making good money. I got a job at The Bella Pasta an Italian restaurant. The hour was a lot better but not the English. Most of my colleagues where from Italy. Our customers where mostly tourists from Sweden, Spain, Italy, Japan etc. I don't think my English improved much there. 

I've been in Sweden for three months now. I know I have lost a bit since I moved back to Sweden but it doesn't take me long to pick it up again. 

My hopes for this course are to improve my grammar and writing. I know that this is the field I am quite bad at.
</doc>