<doc.id=2051.a1>
Listening
My first encounters with the English language were, if I recall it correctly, when I was just beginning elementary school. Of course I could nor speak or understand it, but I became aware of it through films such as E. T., Star Wars, Indiana Jones, etc. From this you can probably realize what identity the language was given, what I at an early age came to connected it with. 
Music also captured my attention when I was a child. Like the actors in the films I mentioned, popular singers would express themselves in English. Without any idea what was actually conveyed in the lyrics, I was provided the message behind those fascinating syllables by my imagination. It was different, new and captivating.
And in what other way would I find it, after having witnessed Darth Vader, Han Solo and other impressive characters speak it?

I consider my understanding of spoken English to be on a comfortable level. This is probably a benefit, as many others may point to as well, from watching many subtitled English programs on Swedish television. My scientific theory, if I may take such liberties, is that the mind unconsciously connects the spoken phrase with the translated, written one. 
It can sometimes be frightening to reflect upon something heard on TV or the radio and not being able to recall whether it was Swedish or English.
Some formulations or intonations can though be difficult to understand at first, more so than in Swedish.

Reading
The other benefactor in this context is the computer, and my family's had one of some sort for as long I can remember. The software, and especially games, is most often in English, forcing the user to learn at least some important keywords. And since I started using the Internet and e-mail (and therefore composing English almost every day), my perception and awareness has grown to include what is essential when a thought or feeling is to be accurately reflected in text. I've a feeling that English has a greater capacity of accommodating such nuances, which makes it easier to catch them.

Since English has a certain character in my point of view, no text is entirely impartial, as compared to my native language.

Altogether, I've no greater difficulties reading English.

Speaking
Spontaneous speaking is without doubt the most unpolished facet of my English linguistic commandment. I rarely practice it in a live situation, and when I do, the lack of vocabulary refinement is what cannot be overlooked. I guess the access time to my English "database" isn't on the same level as it's Swedish equivalent. 
Speaking is probably one of the things that benefit the most from a longer stay in a genuine English-speaking environment, a scenario I'm very inexperienced with, be it for a shorter time.

Communicating a message completely undistorted by lingual insecurity is something I strive to, in any language.

Writing
During my schooling, free written essays in English have not been the main part. However, during my final year of "high school" I attended an extra course, aimed at providing a more in-depth knowledge of English. When you've studied the language for almost nine years (since the fourth grade), you're ready to analyze more that just the grammatical structure of a text.
As I mentioned earlier, the Internet has signified a great deal for my writing skills.
When speaking to some Norwegians online, I discovered something unsettling; we found it easier to communicate in English rather than in our own very similar languages! Since the spelling could be so different, and we were all more used to typing in English, we concurred to use it instead. I find it truly absurd.

As for the rest of my writing skills and weaknesses, which I intend improving during this semester, I think you've been given a pretty representative display in this essay.
</doc>