<doc.id=3001.a1>
<title> Does my main strengths counterbalance my main weaknesses? </title>
In this evaluation I'm supposed to write what I am good/bad at when it comes to "free production".
	When I first saw the assignment I thought: Hey, that's easy. But the more I thought about it the less certain I got. But after having given it some good thought I think I'm ready to give it a shot. 
	I think I'll start with attempting to find something I'm good at.When it comes to the speaking part I guess that pronunciation and vocabulary are my strong points. In the upper secondary school I had a very good teacher who often tried to teach us a posh way to pronounce words, although I don't think I pronounce every word perfectly, I do believe that by having got that training I at least got a good idea of how the words should sound.
	I have also for, say, the last five or six years tried to read as many books written in English that I could lay my greedy little hands on (mostly horror like S. King or fantasy written by T. Pratchett or J.R.R. Tolkien, most of it junk (Not Tolkien) I know, but "good" and amusing nonetheless). That fact has given me a fairly good vocabulary, even if it hasn't, as some of you might think, helped when it comes to other parts of the written language.
	And thus I've come to my weak points, you se, reading books gave me vocabulary, but it didn't help my spelling one bit, sadly. So here I am with lots of words in my head, but unable to spell them properly, therefor I thank God for delivering unto me a computer witch enables me to check my spelling before it, so to speak, goes to print. 
	But spelling poorly isn't by far my biggest problem when it comes to English. My biggest Achilles'' heel is presentation, I have a difficulty speaking in front of a crowd, even if they are some of my best and most trusted friends I get nervous and I react in two different ways. I either start mumbling so that no one can hear what I'm saying or I speed my way through the manuscript, stumbling on words and sounding very unprofessional, but I've been working on this last problem and it's not much of a problem any more, but it sometimes comes back and it's always irritating when it does.
</doc>