<doc.id=3005.a1>
<title> COMPREHENSION OF MY ENGLISH KNOWLEDGE'S </title>
Why I chose to study English 
I studied two other courses before I started studying English. In both the books were written in English. I thought that my ability to read English was good but now I havediscovered that I need some practice. To me English seems to be a good course to start with before I go on reading other courses. Being more secure about the English will ease the problems reading other subjects. Also when it comes to travelling and being abroad, it feels like knowing English well is really useful.

My English speaking ability
I like speaking English and feel comfortable doing it. I think my pronunciation is ok. The things that bothers me, both about my speech and writing ability is that I have difficulties composing more advanced sentences and finding words more suitable than the ones I tend to use. So I guess that what I feel a little bit at unease with is my store of more advanced words and others more smooth ways of expressing myself. As I was in USA four years ago visiting friends to my father for three months I came to use English a lot. Speaking with the children and the father who isn't born American went along fine.The wife on the other hand is born American and works as a teacher. The terminology and phrases she sometimes used was really hard to understand and at moments I felt as if not knowing English at all. The same phenomena can occur as I watch a movie without Swedish translation. Though most of the times the English used in movies is relatively easy to understand. 

Grammar
Though I've read English for 10 years I feel lost when it comes to grammar. I have really never thought of grammar as something I have to know in order to learn English. But lately studying Hindi I realized that it actually is of some importance and that it's a whole lot easier to learn another language understanding the grammar. 

Reading ability
As I wrote before I have read two other courses, both with literature written in English. As I read text more slowly I understood the context and I managed quite fine. But It took a while and there were words that I didn't know that made reading difficult.
</doc>