<doc.id=3011.a1>
<title> Evaluation of my English </title>
This essay is likely to not answer the questions that are raised in the handout. I find it difficult to point out my main strengths and weaknesses when it comes to the English language. Eventhough, I have to found a number of things that have benefited my language, such as my exchange year in New Zealand, my British roots and my general interest in English speaking countries. My main weakness is, I hope, mostly my lacking vocabulary and grammar. Hopefully these things will improve during my education here in the city of Uppsala.
	 The most important thing that has strengthen and greatly improved my knowledge of English was my wonderful Rotary exchange year in New Zealand. To spend everyday life and be part of ordinary family life and the culture of English speaking country makes one's knowledge of the language expend in a rapid phase with noticeable results. 
	I also have benefited in my father. He was born in London and was as a young child adopted to Sweden. Having roots from a English speaking country naturally raises a person's interest in the language that is spoken by other parts of the family. One could therefore say that my roots have made me more eager and focused to learn more about the language. Due to my roots I also have a large interest in other English speaking countries. In their cultures and the ways of being.
	My weaknesses when it comes to the English language are, in my opinion, the grammar and my basic vocabulary. When it comes to the grammar I have just had the education in the Swedish schooling system and my exchange year. I did rather well in school when it comes to grammar, though my knowledge in this aspect is really rather limited. Secondly, I believe that my vocabulary is mainly built up with the aim to be able to have a qualitative conversation and to be able to get along in a English speaking country. My former lack of interest in reading has also stopped me from increasing my vocabulary but that is something I am improving at and the process is hopefully continuing in the future.
	My personal hopes are that after this course I am going to graduate as a student with a large vocabulary and a excellent grammar.
</doc>