<doc.id=3012.a1>
<title> MY KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE </title>
I started to study English when I was about 9 years old and did so until the age of 17. I then thought English was quite boring and I did not feel confident in using the language. 
My interest in learning more English appealed to me when I decided to move to London to find a job. There it became more important to me since I realised the importance of the ability to communicate. I stayed in England for 4 months and then went back to Sweden, but after a year I returned to England. This time I stayed there for 9 months working in a coffeshop and I also studied English there for 3 months in a language school. 
As I was working I got to practise speaking constantly which made me feel very confident at communicating in English, but also to be able to discuss things with my new foreigner friends and to make myself understood really boosted my confidence.
The school I went to was really good, as well as my job was great and that contributed to make me start to love the English language. I felt competent enough to manage but I wanted to learn more and that is the reason why I wanted to take this cores.
So here I am today, evaluating my knowledge of the English language.
 My major weakness is writing. All the mistakes I make becomes so obvious in print, especially spelling errors. I have always been bad at spelling. I sometimes use the wrong word and that is because of lack of knowledge of vocabulary. My vocabulary is not as good as I wish it was, so my writing do not reach as high a standard as it maybe would if I used a bigger variety of words.
The main problem that makes writing my weakness is the grammar. I find being able to write in the right tense, usage the right prefix and getting the words in the right order in a clause are very confusing sometimes.
All this makes me less confident in writing compared to speaking, but I suppose it is all a question of practise. Hopefully that will change since it is such an important bit of a language.
If I should mention my strength I guess that would be speaking. Since I have practised that quite a lot it is natural that I find it as my strength in the English language.
</doc>