<doc.id=3013.a1>
<title> "I SPEAK ENGLISH FOR VERY LONG TIME" </title>
Here comes the story of why I used to consider my English as a good English, but then again everything is relative, as Einstein once said. After this first week studing English it feels like if I have never had a good command of English and never made a simple clause right.
Now I have been told that it will only get worse, the feeling I mean. 
I think of all the occasions when I, confident of my English, talked in English to guests and visitors from abroad. But as I said at the beginning, everything is relative and I shall tell you why. 
Many years ago I worked for a big Swedish company as an interpreter during the summers. What I really had to do was to show the company clients around, guide them through the most important Swedish cities and just be a nice Swedish hostess. I used to tell them about the Swedish society and culture to help them to get to know Sweden. Since I was born and raised in Spain and since I speak Spanish fluently they normally gave me those clients that came from Latin America. But then there were times when they wanted me to take care of groups from Asia, Africa or Easten Europe and I had to speak English. The majority of the company clients were rich and learned men but their English was mostly pitiful. They all said: - "Monica, You speak English very good!" So my confidence grew, I spoke a better English than all those engineers and directors from all different countries! 
There is also another important component why I felt so competent about my English, my mother, she was the one who gave me that job. 
You see, my mother is a very 'international' person, she has travelled all over the world and she has an immense so called social competence that allows her to speak with anyone for hours about nothing and still make them feel like if they have been talking about all the crucial subjects in the world.
I once belived that I had the gift too, like if I had inherited her qualities. 
I don't think so anymore, if anything I feel like Manuel in Fawlty Towers - "I speak English for very long time". As a matter of fact I am from Barcelona. But I'm a good student and I have an enormous will that will help me through this term.
</doc>