<doc.id=3015.a1>
<title> Mevaluation </title>
Introduction
In this paper I will assess my main strengths and weaknesses when it comes to speaking and writing English. First I'll give a background on my experiences from the English language. With that as a point of departure I will then assess first my strengths and then my weakness. I will finish by describing what I think is what I need to develop further. 

Background
I have studied at university for almost five years now and I have a master's degree in political science. I have much experience of reading and listening to English, but little of speaking and writing. My experiences come mainly from university studies and consumption of culture from English-speaking countries. I have very little experience from being in English-speaking countries myself.

I have also studied English in compulsory school and high school for nine years. I have not felt motivated to continue to study foreign languages until recent years. The internationalisation of society and politics has made language skills very important for my career opportunities.

My strengths
I can quite easily understand spoken and written English. From my practising of these "passive skills" I have a useful vocabulary and I think I have got a feeling for how English language should be. I also have much experience from writing in Swedish, which is good when writing in other languages.

My weaknesses
My greatest weakness comes from my limited experience from speaking and writing English. I sometimes don't find the right words and I often feel that I could have expressed myself better. It takes time before I begin to find my feet and it takes time to find the "English feeling". I feel that I don't make use of all the knowledge I have because of my unaccustomedness. I get along well in everyday situations, but maybe not so well when I do interviews or write formal letters in English.

What I need
What I need is to practise English, to be corrected when I do wrong and helped to do better. In that way I hope to develop my skills and also to become more aware of my own strengths and weaknesses. I think that I can make great progress in a rather short time, because I really have a great need for practising my active English skills.
</doc>