<doc.id=3018.a1>
<title> The unsettling truth about <name>'s English </title>
This is a evaluation of my active English skills in which I will describe my main weakness and my main strength. 
 Lack of writing training has made me feel unsure of spelling and writing essays. As I'm aware of this weakness I hope to turn it around and make it a strength.
 Since may father is American I have always liked English and being able to speak with may relatives. This has made me fairly good at the oral- communicative skills. 

 Throughout the "upper secondary" me and my class only did two minor essays. A written essay was considered finished after the first draft and we were never asked to improve our essays in any way. The teacher would read the essay and then set a mark on its proficiency. That was it! We never got the chance to improve our writing skills.
 I don't believe my English would have improved at all during the upper secondary if I hadn't been reading so much English in my spare time. This lack of training in written English has made me feel a bit unsure of both spelling and the writing of longer texts. I must often stop in the middle of writing and read what I've just written, out loud to hear if it sounds correct. This weakness may very well be my downfall but as I'm strongly aware of that I'll really work to make it a strength. 

 My father being American has always made me interested in English and I've found it very fascinating being able to communicate with my relatives using another language. By training my oral- communicative skills on my relatives from a fairly young age I've become fairly good at them. My vocabulary may not be the best there is but I can usually make myself perfectly understood. My speech is quite fluid and the pronunciation is acceptable. I feel secure with my English and I don't hesitate to use it as often as I can. I've been in contact with different formality levels of English and I don't believe I've offended anybody (yet). I take that as a good sign but it could just as well mean the opposite. I hope it doesn't!
</doc>