<doc.id=3020.a1>
<title> EVALUATION OF <name>'s ENGLISH-SKILLS </title>
During my whole life I have come in contact with the English language everyday thruogh music, film, television and litterature. I have studied English in school for 9,5 years alltogether and I should probably mention that I have never been in an englishspeaking country.
I have always listened to and taken interest in the way people speak. Their voice, language, accent and of course what they say and how they say it. The listening have been quite developing for me and my English. I have through the years developed a pretty good pronounciation and vocabulary. But I can definitely improve those things. I don't speak English a lot, as a matter of fact I don't speak much at all. I have a little "personalityproblem". I am shy and that affects not only my language but also my life in a negative way. But it is up to me toface my fears and get over it.
The listening has, as I mentioned earlier, helped to improve my vocabulary. I have always read a lot mostly in Swedish but during my twenties also in English. That too has affected my vocabulary and also my spelling in a positive way. I have always been quite good at spelling both in Swedish and in English. But I never think about spellingrules. It is more that I recognise words and that I know or remember what they look like. But sometimes that failes and I makes spellingmistakes. 
Because of my shyness it is easier for me to express myself in writing but I don't think about grammar when I write and therefore it is not always grammatically correct. I handle the language in the same way I handle the spelling. I can often see or hear if I make a grammarmistake. Some might maybe call that a short cut, that I skip the "boring" part and maybe it is. But I take writing very seriuosly and I do look things up in grammarbooks or dictionaries if I need to.
To summarize this information about my Englishskills. I have come to the conclusion that I am or at least could be good at speaking English when and if I dare to open my mouth. When it comes to writing I am quite good if I may say that about myself. But I need to learn the grammar better and I need to learn how to use it when I write to get a grammatically correct result.
</doc>