<doc.id=3023.a1>
<title> About the English language </title>
English is a very rich language. For one thing there are many expressions. I think it's a beautiful language. Especially the British English. I love the sound of it! But it's also a quite difficult language. So what am I good at and what am I not so good at? That's the question.

Writing is something I really like to do. Even something I believe I need to do. I write poems and mainly I write them in English. I actually find it easier to express myself in English. Since I just write from my heart I guess I do a whole lot of grammatical mistakes. I write whenever something "pops up" inside of me. I write exclusively about my faith in one form or another. It's my way of dealing with my joy, my fascination and my longing but also my doubts and my questions. 

Mostly my poems stays with me and my grammatical mistakes with them... But I have a dream that I one day would be able to edit my very own book of poetry. And if that shall happen I do believe that I have to improve my grammar. I don't read much poetry but I have read many song lyrics through the years. So I think my vocabulary is quite good. Even though the test we did the other day proved me wrong...

If I dare to admit, I talk to myself sometimes. In English... Talking to myself is easier than to speak in front of a group. Naturally. But as it is now I don't have a serious problem speaking in front of other people. I used to, but not anymore. If, will say, I feel I've got something to say that is of importance or of interest. I remember a speech we did in Swedish in Upper Secondary School. It was supposed to be about "beautiful and ugly". We were four persons who had prepared a very good introduction. But after that...we didn't have a clue what to say. It was really painful to stand there knowing that the rest of the class expected a continue. And we didn't have any... So speaking demands a lot. You shall know what to say, how to say it, how to pronounce it etc. I know I have much to improve, much to learn and much more to discover about the English language.
</doc>