<doc.id=3026.a1>
<title> The Written and Spoken English of <name> </title>
Speaking and writing I guess really are my strength in using the English language. Reading and listening aren't. I consider spelling and grammar my most valuable assets in writing and when speaking it is pronunciation and authentic accent. Common everyday phrases and expressions are always problems to foreign language learners considering both writing and speaking. Of course the vocabulary can always be extended too.

Before I considered my main strength in writing grammatical correctness. After the grammar lectures given by Margareta I'm not so sure anymore. Joking apart, it might still be my main strength together with spelling probably. Spelling is something I mind very much and at which I am good. Of course now as I have had a year's break from studying I can appear to be a little rusty at times.

My troubles in writing then. Are there any? Indeed there are. As I'm not a native speaker and since I haven't spent a lot of time in an English speaking environment there are clearly obstacles for me on my way to perfection; Mainly with different expressions and idioms. The smallest, common phrases and sayings that one catches up in one's native language through the years which foreigners do not have a clue about and that I believe I will never get a complete hold of when it comes to English. Still I am optimistic, so I will probably learn many of them.

When speaking the vocabulary is a much bigger problem than when writing naturally. You can always look words up when writing but not when speaking if you want to keep some continuity in the communication. I by the way believe that everyone always can learn new words, though teachers like yourself probably know an awful lot of them.
Vocabulary and again common phrases and expressions are my main weakness in speaking.

Speaking is the part of English that I enjoy most anyhow. I love just to formulate words and hear them come out sounding as if said by a native speaker; Because American accent is really my strength in speaking together with pronunciation where I consider my self rather fluent. I couldn't tell whether it's a consistent accent or a mixture of several, but it feels authentic enough for me. It derives from countless hours both in front of the television set and at the movies.
</doc>