<doc.id=3038.a1>
<title> A Universe to Explore </title>
To learn a foreign language is like to travel in a wide universe through numberless ways. One can never reach the ultimate border of this universe and say that the journey is over because there is always left another journey, on another way. The process of learning English has for me an even bigger extension. The more one gets into the secrets of English, the more one can se, somewhere, another dimension, some another nuances, a new corner that hasn't been explored yet. 
This is how I feel when I have to evaluate my strengths and weaknesses concerning free production. Compared with what is left for me to learn, it feels like nothing is positive about my skills in writing or speaking and nothing can be characterised as "a main strength". But I will try my best to give a real picture of my negative and "positive" sides concerning my ability of free production. 
As one probably already noticed from above and as I recognise myself, the main weakness lies on the writing side and that means that I fell quite insecure about certain grammar issues such as prepositions, articles, clause construction, using the subjunctive. I just have to say before I go further that prepositions sort of "frighten" me. I would characterise them as black holes of the universe I mentioned before. Another "astronomical" weakness is my poor spelling and in spite of the fact that I always tried to improve it, it never got better. 
The vocabulary is a significant galaxy of the English universe and it seems to me like an extraordinary challenge. But my knowledge resumes to what one can see with the naked eye, quite a basic vocabulary. I may have an advantage when it comes to words that have Latin origin. Words like "persuade", "vigorous", "eloquence" are a natural part of my English vocabulary because I learned them through the three Latin languages I can speak and understand. But this positive thing can turn out to be a negative one sometimes, when I use Latin words which don't exist in English vocabulary.
After giving a long thought I believe I found that I might have a main strength about my free production and that is the pronunciation. I don't know if it is something one can be proud of, but I never really forced myself to pronounce words in English, all came very naturally. 
 A lot it is left to research travelling through this huge English universe and I believe this course is a high-speed spacecraft.
</doc>