<doc.id=3044.a1>
<title> Evaluation </title>
Even though I dont have any genetic bounds to english speaking countries, and hasn't spent any time abroad during my childhood, I have always felt that languages in general, and english in particular, was something I had a talent for. It has been the subject in school that I've enjoyed the most and also the subject I have had the best results in since I was introduced to it almost 10 years ago. 

Because of the above, a main reason in my decision to spend last winter in an english speaking country, New Zealand, was to improve my skills in speaking the english language, something I had never got a chance to practise in real life before. I wont deny that a lot bigger reason for my decision was the fact that New Zealand was in the middle of very comfortable summer at the moment and the big number of cheap, good golf courses. 
And of course the beer. But still....
 
However I still feel that my main strength in the english language is the written part; reading, writing and translating.
The visit to New Zealand was very helpful in the sense that it helped me improve my ability to actually speak the language relatively fluid; especially in the end of the 3 month journey I felt for the first time that I didnt have to think twice before I opened my mouth, my thoughts were almost all english. Unfortunately you tend to lose that ability rather quickly if you dont speak the language regularly, so I hope for many opportunities to refresh my english at this course.

Since I didnt manage to pick up a New Zealand accent during the time I was there,the influence of TV and movies, I would say, has been determining the accent of english I use when I write and speak. 
I think that my english sound more american than british (but mostly Swedish, of course), which I think is a shame. I really prefer british english, because it sounds better, and because I tend to like everything British(except the Royal House) but mainly because I've got the impression that british english is more genuine and more grammatically correct. 
Maybe I'm wrong...

As far as the weaknesses are concerned, I would say, without the shadow of a doubt, that my biggest weakness is the grammar.
Which, I guess, makes me one of many english students with the same problem.
The grammar part wasnt nearly as big part of the english education where I went to high school, as it seems here. So I can hardly say that I feel very prepared for this part of the course. Hopefully the teacher will be patient...
</doc>