<doc.id=3045.a1>
<title> MY KNOWLEDGE IN ENGLISH </title>
My name is <name> and I am 25 years old. I have not been studying English since gymnasium. Because I have become such old (!) and have not studied English for about six years I can't say that I feel comfortable with the language. I hope I will improve my knowledge in English during this course. It feels important to know English as it is a world language and gives you opportunities to communicate with people from all over the world. 

I think my biggest problem right now is to speak and communicate in a more natural way. It is not a problem to make myself understood when I am talking to people, but I do not feel as self-confident as I want to. I need a better vocabulary. When I have been travelling in Europe I have got the feeling that Swedes mostly are very good in English if you compare with other European states. I was in Holland and Belgium during the European championships in football this summer and then I felt like I was quite good at speaking English. I think the Dutchmen were pretty much as good as the Swedes but other countries were much worse. The Italians, who played in the same group as Sweden, were not good at all. 

When it comes to grammar I am not sure were I stand, but I think it is possible to learn and I do not feel worried about that. When I am writing this I try to use the words that I first think of. I do not think to much about the grammar. There are lots of grammar I do not know, and my intention with this term is to learn the most important rules and how to use them.

I have been studying law for three years and I have one and a half year left to my exam. I want to be able to read, write and speak English good at the time of finishing the program. I want to improve my English before I start working and I think it will be harder for me to study it after my exam, and therefore it feels like it is the right time to study the language now. In January or February I have planned to go to Greece to study law. The courses are in English and I think it will help me a lot that I study English this term. I hope I will be able to live and study or work in an English-speaking country, as that is the best way of learning and hopefully this course will give me the fundamental knowledge.
</doc>