<doc.id=3063.a1>
<title> English and I... </title>
My name is <name>, I'm 22 years old and I'm here going to write an essay about my English competence. I have tried to write down some points during my brainstorming, but there where not much to say about that. In the following text I will try to give you my strength and weakness in the English language.

Well, I would say, and I'm sorry to do that, that my greatest weakness is that I don't have any great ambition to study, but I believe that will change now. But with exception of that, I think my main weakness is the grammar - wordclasses for example. I haven't done this sort of grammar since 7-9 grade in school. And during this time in school I was very interested in playing tennis, so I trained about 6-7 times a week. Because of this the schoolwork was suffering. I did my homework on time, but I could have learned more if I had given it some more time and interest. I think I have a small vocabulary, since I sometimes have difficulty finding the right words.

I don't know how it's now, but in 4-9 grade I had an easy time learning new languages - such as English and German. This was one of my strengths, but I don't think it's that easy know a days. I have to work a bit harder.

I have for the past year been studying at the Military Academy in Östersund. There we had some English on the schedule, but those lessons were mostly focused on military English, such as commands and expressions used in the British and American armies. We also had an international exercise week, but unfortunately we didn't speak as much English as we were supposed to do. Before the Military Academy I haven't used English since the year of 96/97 when I went to school, except for three or four times during the year I was working at OKQ8 in Kiruna. 

However, I will have a lot of use of English in my future work, since the Swedish Airforce (pilots and flightcontrol at least) have started to communicate in English over the radio. This has been done because English is NATO-standard and in the future Sweden hope to participate in international operations and exercises. In order to do this we must handle the "flight English". The pilots should only use Swedish in case of emergency, when they are under a lot of extra stress.
</doc>