<doc.id=3064.a1>
<title> My English education and its results </title>
I find it very hard to give an accurate account for my own skills. My experience is that you always think that you are either much better or much worse than you actually are. So in order to give a picture of my knowledge in the English language I thought that I will try to take a look at the background. A description of my English education ought to give at least a rough picture of what my knowledge looks like today. Let's start from the beginning:
My first contact with the English language took place when I was seven years old. My parents then got an offer to work in England for a year. They accepted the offer, and soon the whole family moved to England. I hardly knew a word English when I got there, but that changed very soon. 
When the term started I had to go to the little school in the village where we lived. To be able to communicate there I simply had to learn English. I did that by listening to the native speakers and then try and try till I got it right. Just like a child does when it learns to speak its mother tongue.
 When I came back to Sweden a year later I spoke English almost fluently, while my classmates just had begun to learn how to say "Hello". The bad thing was that I had to go to the same English lessons as they. Those lessons gave me nothing, and I soon began to loose my skills in free production, as I didn't get any training.
The feeling that the English lessons at school were totally useless to me remained through all of compulsory school. But the upper secondary meant a great change. There we got to read novels and write reviews, essays and short stories. I learned a lot of new words and grammar, and I loved it! Now it's been two years since those English studies and I'm once again beginning to forget. 
One thing that I have noticed during all these years of English studies is that I have great asset in my love for studies and in my stubbornness. These characteristics help me to compensate for the fact that I actually lack what people call "a feeling for language". The things that I think I need to work with during this course are mostly my pronunciation and my vocabulary. And if I continue to be stubborn I think that will go very well.
</doc>