<doc.id=3065.a1>
<title> Practice makes perfect </title>
I will start with a short presentation of myself and then I will continue talking about my knowledge in the English language today and what I hope I will learn from this course.
My name is <name> and I'm 28 years old. I was born in the north of Stockholm where I lived until 1997, when I moved to Uppsala. I started to study part time while I was still working, as an assistant, for a construction company called NCC. I've been taking courses in economics, statistics and business studies where business is my major. I have completed nine years of compulsory school and four years of high school. This means I have nine years of English education and training. To be good in English you have to practice and practice. I've always been the quiet girl both in school and among people I don't know. I never liked talking in front of other students, especially not in English. In 1993 I went to the United States to work as an Au pair in West Chester, outside Philadelphia. During that year I learned a lot, both about the culture and about the language. I also learned not to be afraid of speaking the language. I was in contact with my host family a couple of years after 1993 and I kept my English fluently for several years. 
That was seven years ago and I haven't talked much English since then. I believe I can say that I don't have any problem with my understanding of the language. It's easy to get the understanding part going when movies, shows, articles and so on are in English. The grammatical part is the hardest one and in that area I have a lot to learn. What seems very good with this course is that you get to practice writing which force you to think of the grammar as well. Because of my long break in speaking I also need to practice conversation, reminding me that speaking is not a dangerous thing. 
When it comes to knowing English, I believe it's easier to take part in today's society if you master the English language. The society more or less demands knowledge in, not just English, but any language. A lot of company's ask for skills in English and I believe this course will improve my English particularly when it comes to speaking and writing correct English.
</doc>