<doc.id=3068.a1>
<title> How I feel about the English language </title>
I have a special passion for the English language. I like the sound of it, all the cute little words like buzz and tumble and that one feeling can be expressed with ten different words. I have not always felt this way and I will start this essay by explaining a little about my background and how I first became interested in the English spoken language.

English never used to be my favourite subject. 1997/1998 I went abroad to Canada. I stayed in a city called London for one year as an exchangestudent. It is, so far, the best year of my life. During this time I developed most of the language skills I have today. Suddenly I found a whole new meaning of the language. The ability to have a conversation with a person whose native tongue is other then Swedish was incredible. I did not pay much attention to the grammar itself. I heard when I made mistakes even if I could not always explain why. It was so different from sitting behind the desk in school, listen to a recorded conversation on tape, fill in the blanks on a sheet of paper or rattle off words.

Even if I after my year in Canada was no longer afraid of using the language it was far away from being perfect. Today my main weaknesses are poor vocabulary and grammar, which results in simple, non-complicated 

English, both oral and written. I have no difficulty in speaking, using the language or making myself understood, instead I very much enjoy using it, even prefer it before Swedish.

When it comes to free production in speaking and writing I always think in English first. If there is a word I do not know or remember I look it up in a dictionary. Usually when I speak and forget a word I find a synonym or explain it in other ways. This system of learning is not very successful if the goal is to develop a larger vocabulary. I realise that first today.

I am not taking this course in English because I always been the linguistic genius in my class. It is a language that interests and fascinates me and makes me want to learn and expand my knowledge even wider. I know now, I will.
</doc>