<doc.id=4011.a1>
<title> My English </title>
I found it wasn't easy to assess my competence in English, mainly because I grew up in an English speaking family and I have therefore spoken English all my life. However, I will do my best to assess what I feel are my strengths and weaknesses.
	 I would say my main strength is that I have had a good grounding in English, thanks to an excellent home language teacher. This means that I always manage to find a way round any difficulties. But although I have never had any problems in communicating I often feel insecure when speaking or writing in English. In both cases I find that I constantly use and reuse the same words and when I can't find the right word I tend to use a Swedish word, instead of trying to widen my vocabulary. One of the reasons for this is probably because I'm rather a lazy person, so if I can get away with using a Swedish word I probably will.
	 I attended home language lessons for about ten years, from the age of six, which really helped my reading and writing abilities as we did a lot of home assignments. But recently I haven't written a thing in English, apart from the odd "thank you note" at Christmas and that doesn't really count. The fact that I have only just begun to feel confident when writing in Swedish gives me the idea that it will probably take me a long time to become just as confident in English.
	 When it comes to writing in English I especially find spelling difficult, but hopefully the fact that I do a lot of reading means that I will soon find it a lot easier. As reading and speaking have been such a big part of my life I don't make many grammatical mistakes in either of these, at least not too obvious ones. Although, when asked what grammatical rule I have used I am almost always clueless. Writing is probably my main weakness along with my lack of vocabulary.
	 It is not easy to pinpoint the strengths and weaknesses in the things you do. I never really thought about my English until I decided to take this course but now I realise that there are many things I would like to improve and hopefully, after this course I will have done so.
</doc>