<doc.id=4014.a1>
<title> Where I am at or pls b wlcm and Rgds </title>
To make my self clear concerning my weakness and strength in writing and speaking in English, I need to tell you about my background. I graduated High School in 1983. In September the same year I went to the U.S and worked as an au-pair there for almost 2 years. At my rescent work I used English every day. I worked for a clothing company, JC, and the English we used were mainly expressions in terms of textile and clothes.

Writing:
Since graduation from High School I haven't really been writing a lot in English. During my time in the U.S I didn't write that much. I do like to write though, it's easier to find the words when writing than when you are speaking. Downside is that I write as I speak. When it comes to spelling I feel pretty certain (well we will see about that after you have corrected this production). Regarding grammar I believe I can hear what it should be but I can't explain why. At my rescent work we wrote in English, mainly using the email and faxmachine. When you write an email you tend to shortened the words for example, rcvd = received, hv = have, pls = please etc. and it's not good for your writing, you also tend to make the sentences very short.

Speaking:
When I was living in the U.S I spoke quite fluently. Native Americans told me that I spoke very well, I had the correct "melody", fluency and prenounciation. During the years I have lost some of that skill, in spite of that we spoke English with most of our suppliers at my work. JC manufacture the majority of their clothes in Hong Kong. Our business partners in Hong Kong tends to cut off the words when speaking English. After some time you noticed that you did the same. I can assure you that some of the conversations were really strange! Of course the majority of the habitants of Hong Kong speaks very well. 

I feel like I'm in a rush when speaking probably because I feel uncertain, but I believe I will feel more certain the more we speak on this course.

As a total I feel that I need to enlarge my vocabulary and to work on my grammar along with the other tings I have pointed out above.

The conclusion of my weakness and strength concering writing and speaking English is as following comparison. I feel like a rusty car that haven't been driven for a long time and it needs gas, oil and some reparation.
</doc>