<doc.id=4042.a1>
<title> The English language - my strengths and weaknesses </title>
I've been asked to write about my main strength and weakness when it comes to free production. It doesn't sound that difficult but it is. So I sat down and started thinking about my relationship to the English language. This is what I came up with.
	I have always loved writing. At first in Swedish but then also in English. For me writing is a way to express myself, my thoughts and feelings. To be able to write is very important in today's society. If you have a great knowledge in the art of writing you can achieve something. And I feel that this is my main strength. I am able to communication. I can write so that people understand me. 
	Another thing is that I'm a big reader. I can get totally absorbed in a book. I'm not able to put it down until I have finished it. This is very common when it comes to me and books. The books invite you to a new world. People you have never met, places you have never seen. A dream of mine is to be able to write a novel. A novel that touches people. So far it's just a dream. But you never know... 
	My main weakness is speaking. I believe I have the right words and sentences but I haven't got the fluency that's so important. I thought I would get this when I applied for English class at Ekebyskolan in Uppsala. But that was not the case. We talked as much Swedish as English during the lessons and the teachers didn't seem to mind. The most common question was: "Can I take this in Swedish because it's so hard to explain in English?" What were they doing there if they didn't want to speak English? 
	So you can understand that my three years at Ekeby didn't give me the fluency I wanted. But it wasn't all bad. Among other things we learned how to read and understand difficult texts. I also learned to understand almost everything the teachers said. What about the fluency then? Well, I'm working on it. During my family's trips to America I've been given the opportunity to use my English skills in real life. That is maybe the only way you can learn more and get that fluency that's so important. And why not combine travelling with teaching? It's a lot more fun that way.
</doc>