<doc.id=4043.a1>
<title> English from a student's point of view </title>
To learn a foreign language like English takes a lot of your time and you need to have patience because it takes several years before you can use and speak the language fluently. Also, there are some problems that are very difficult to deal with. I have been studying English for many years, but I think that I still have a lot to learn when it comes to writing and speaking.

	 I believe that speaking a foreign language can be the most difficult thing when you are learning a language. My main weakness is speaking English without hesitating. However, living in Ireland for six months has helped me practise my English a lot. There they taught me how to speak with confidence, which has been a main part in my learning. 
It is so much easier to learn how to speak a language when you live with native speakers. Just hearing how the language sounds can be very valuable.

	 A strength I have, that I have been practising for a long time, is how to pronounce the words. However, pronunciation has always been relatively easy for me, not only when it comes to English, but also Spanish and German. This is something that has come naturally to me and I am grateful for that.

	 Writing English is from my point of view easier than speaking. My main strength I think is my vocabulary. It is important to vary the words when you are writing because it makes the text you write even more interesting and easier to read. With a wide vocabulary you can do that.
I have also practised words that I find more difficult and that has made my vocabulary even wider.

	 When you are writing a text you must also spell the words correctly. However, this is one of my weaknesses when it comes to writing in English. But dictionaries help me a lot, and maybe I appreciate them even more than other students do.
Dictionaries can also be used for grammar practise, but I do not see grammar as my main problem. 

	 The English language is something I have been practising for a long time and still it is difficult to say how competent I am. But travelling to Ireland, Malta and England to learn English has made me more self-assured, which can help me a great deal in my university studies today.

	 I hope that my weaknesses will disappear one day, because my goal is to speak English fluently. So, with a lot of practise and more understanding for the English language that can happen.
</doc>