<doc.id=4045.a1>
<title> The <name> Evaluation: a longed for confession </title>
There has been a great interest in the knowledge of my English as of late. So in this neat little presentation I intend to reveal to the world my capabilities. Or at least, my own assessments of my skills, in both the orally and the literary ways of the English language. I will, here, give you my strengths and my weaknesses.
	 My main strength is understanding English, and by understanding I mean the way I can understand a text or something told without really knowing all the words in what's written or said. I also consider my pronunciation to be good. I have always had an interest in dialects and, I actually practise speaking different English dialects several times every day, I'd like to say I'm fairly good, keeping in mind I don't have English as my mother tongue[H1]. My spelling is not as good as my oral ability, although I consider myself to be a fair enough speller.
	 As for my weaknesses there are plenty, of course. My number one weakness have to be grammar. In a written presentation, such as this, I, most of the time, write grammatically correct, but I have no knowledge of defining the grammatical rules I practise, is this a pronoun, is that an object or a subject, when do you put a ' sign after a word and why? Those things. My vocabulary is rather good but when it comes to technical terms, political and judicial terms, medical terms, etc, I know very little. 
	 Knowing what is British English and what is American English, in the use of words and difference in spelling are other things I practically know nothing about.
	 As I wrote earlier in the text, you'll understand that I have no trouble reading books written in English. I already read plenty of books in English, due to the simple reason that one can get hold of books in their original language sooner, than if you waited that year, or how long it takes for a book to be translated in to Swedish. However my reading speed does not match my ability to understand or put things in to it's context. I'm a very slow reader, which makes it difficult for me to keep up. But I don't think it will cause any trouble.
	 These are naturally not all of my strengths and weaknesses, the rest will show in time. In the six months to come I am sure I will learn to better my weak points and strengthen my, well, strengths. I'm positive I will enjoy my time in the English department.
</doc>