<doc.id=5005.a1>
<title> ME AND MY ENGLISH </title>
There must be a thought behind when teachers give their students a difficult assignment, such as this one, in the beginning of a course. In this case the purpose must be that you, our teachers, want us, your students, to start thinking about ourselves and our knowledge of the English language. 
Even though I have travelled a lot and used my English I still feel that I have some gaps that need to be filled. Hoping to get help to fill those gaps I chose to study English here at Uppsala university.
At this stage, 400 words sounds like a tremendous amount of words. Honestly, I have never had any difficulties in writing, at least not up until now. I have been walking around for a few days now, trying to figure out which my strongest and weakest points are, and I think I actually have found a few worth mentioning.

When I graduated from upper secondary school last year I made the decision to have a gap year before going to university in Sweden. Since languages have always interested me, I thought that it might be a good idea to study abroad, not only to learn a language, but also to get to know the culture and social life and, of course, to have a good time! Even though I was (and maybe still am) more interested in Spanish and French I decided to go to England. 
In my Cambridge class there, we practised writing a lot. Not only did the course teach me the layouts of different kinds of essays, I also learned much grammar and increased my vocabulary. Nevertheless I feel that I have to learn more words so that I can use more synonyms. When it comes to grammar I know that there are some areas I should practise a little more, but on the other hand, there are also areas where I feel quite comfortable. 

If I pass on to speaking, I think I have the same problem here as in writing; I have to increase my vocabulary so that I have more words to use when talking. Although I know many words, I have the tendency, just like other people, not to use them when talking. I guess that is because I do not feel sure enough about the meaning of the words and, instead of saying the wrong thing, I choose another word. Nevertheless, I do not feel that I have any difficulties when speaking. If I can not find a word it is almost always possible to tell things in another way.

When I now read and count the words in my text, I realise that there actually are some things that I need to study a little more, but from my point of view, there are also things I master and maybe do not have to work on much more. And the most important thing; now I know that it is not difficult to write 400 words, at least not when you get the possibility to write about yourself...
</doc>