<doc.id=5015.a1>
<title> My English and I </title>
In this assay I write about what I think is my main strength and my main weakness regarding to the free production in English. I also try to explain the reasons why I feel the way I do.

My weakness in speaking English is that I don't do it fluently. I got stuck on words and thinks too much about the grammar. I haven't been abroad to any high school nor have I been an au pair in an English-speaking country. The only time I have been talking English is when I have been to Greece on vacations. But I have had some experience of speaking English when I was in the upper secondary school. My English teacher always spoke English on the lessons and we had to speak English to. But I was not much of a forward person so I didn't speak more than a couple of sentences per lesson. And of course we had to stand in front of the class and talk about any subject for 15 minutes. On this we were given a grade on how we had performed and that made me extra nervous. That wasn't a good experience but I have gone past that and try to speak as much English that I can now. I can make myself understood and I have no problems to understand what others say.

If we go over to the written word I have to say that writing always has been my biggest weakness in English. I haven't done that much writing in school, maybe one essay per semester, so I haven't been able to improve it. The main reason that I am not good at writing is probably that I have terrible imagination and it takes me forever to write one page. This is not just in English but in Swedish too. I am not that good with grammar and I haven't written in a while so I have forgot almost everything about grammar. But I think that I am pretty good on vocabulary and that's probably because I love to read books that are written in English and of course I'm watching television. I even think it's more enjoyable to read a book that is written in English than to read a book in Swedish.
</doc>