<doc.id=5022.a1>
<title> My English </title>
I have always been a fond reader but it was not until I came across "Three Men in a Boat" by Jerome that I started to realise how the structure and the language work to create, in that case, humour: humour in the language itself, in the phrasing and choice of words. I wanted to learn how that elegance was achieved and be able to write myself, something that I would also like to read. 
Since then I have covered a number of English books and reading is consequently one of my strengths. I have not, however, studied how to analyse what I read in any critical or informed way. This I look forward to learning during the A-course.
Through reading, but also through films and, to some extent, travelling, I have picked up words, the meaning of which, has become clear simply by hearing them used often. This applies perhaps even more to structure and expression than to vocabulary. This is the way native people would learn English, though at a much younger age and it has, I think, been one of the most important sources of learning for me. It has however left me short when it comes to spelling or stating what grammatical rule is being applied. 
Another weakness is speech. I have trained to express myself in writing, even though it has been mostly fiction and an endless number of letters of complaint we wrote in high school. Talking, however, it is more difficult. Weather this has to do with too little practise, shyness or something else, I do not know. Probably a combination.
On the whole, I probably need practice in all arias, but some more than others of course. In conclusion: My strengths are reading and expressing myself, primarily in writing - although I feel most at ease if the task is fictional or to complain. My weaknesses lie towards grammar, speech and academical writing.
I look very much forward to studying English at university level, especially the literature-course. I also hope to learn to write better, not falling into being either simple or pretentious, but coming closer to that elegance which first made me love English.
</doc>