<doc.id=5031.a1>
<title> Evaluation </title>
English is a very interesting language, so I've always thought. But my capability with the language has not always been on the good side -rather the opposite. But we live to learn.

As far as languages come, be it Swedish, English, French... my two Achilles' heels have always been spelling and grammar. 

My infamous habit of overlooking bad spelling in texts is a notorious bad one of mine. -It does help keeping irritation low when reading texts of other poor spelling writers, though, as I usually can choose to overlook their mistakes too. But thankfully, my sense of spelling has proven not to be that much less than that of your average student -I just like to scramble things more, apparently. 

Grammar, compared to spelling, I am plain lousy at. Sometimes it could just as well be ancient Greek I am trying to understand. The grammatical terms and ways are simply put 'not my cup of tea'. Yet I am aware it is one of those cups you just better drink up, like it or not. 

 But I dare say I am not all bad at English. If nothing else I feel competent enough about my speech and knowledge to say without blushing that I am fairly good to make myself understood, to communicate. Most of the times anyway -we all get tongue-tied and find ourselves at a loss of words at some point, even the English themselves. 

Why do I say my weak points are spelling and grammar? They just are, as history and grades may leave witness to. 

Why do I dare say I feel competent about my communicative skills in English? I would say it is because it just is what I enjoy the most. To read, listen, write and speak the language is what I fancy. -To use it. Grammar and spelling I might jokingly call two necessary bi-products. Just like to ride that horse into the romantic sunset, you also need to feed, care and tend to it. Otherwise it will be one shaky ride. 

So, I'm no English genius. I just happen to be fascinated with the language in more ways than one. And I'm good at liking it. If you sweeten that cold bitter and boring cup of tea dubbed Grammar and Spelling with the positive parts, I might just swallow that one too -without flinching, too much.
</doc>