<doc.id=0105.b4>
<title> Julius Caesar </title>
The extract I intend to analyze is act II scene 1, in this scene there is seven people all together but the only ones that are of any interest are Brutus and Cassius, whom I will concentrate on. What has happened previously is that Cassius has tried to convince Brutus to join him in a conspiracy against Julius Caesar and Brutus has for several hours been brooding over what to do. As we come in to the play all the conspirators, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Cinna, Metellus and Trebonius, have arrived at Brutus' house and he has just decided that he is to join them in the assassination of Caesar.What first struck me when reading this passage is how sudden and, especially, radically Brutus has changed his opinion about Julius Caesar, from being uncertain whether he really is dangerous, to all of a sudden considering him a tyrant, as we can see in line 118 - 119.
 "So let high-sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery." To me it seem that this must be his way of justifying to himself what he is about to do, namely murder his best friend in cold blood. Once he has decided to join the conspiracy there can be no doubt whether he is right or wrong, and he joins in full force. To him it is all or nothing and he instantaneously takes on the role as the leader of the conspiracy. And when the others suggest that Cicero should join, particularly Metellus who says, "It shall be said that his judgement ruled our hands" (147) and also he that his age is a component that will make people respect him and therefor also them and their cause, Brutus sees his leadership being threatened and convinces the others not to include him. (150 - 152). 
Furthermore, Brutus does not only convince himself that Caesar is a tyrant but when the discussion of killing Mark Antony together with Caesar comes up he more or less glorifies the murder."Let us be sacrifiers, but not butcher, Caius" (166)"Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
	
	Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, 
	
	Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds." (171 - 174)
	
"We shall be called purgers, not murderers. (180)This is another example of him not wanting to do the wrong thing and once decided he has to believe that what he is doing is for the good of the people. But as I see it one of the main reason he is agreeing to do it is just plain vanity, all the letters he has been getting makes him feel overconfident in himself and he starts to believe that he can do no wrong.
	Cassius on the other hand has one strong point he is a very good judge of character. For one knows that Brutus has such a good reputation with the people that he is necessary for the cause, and even though Cassius is the one who has started and organized the uproar he realizes that once Brutus is joining them and takes on the leader role that is what has to happen. Even when he does not agree with Brutus he only expresses his concerns but does nothing more to try to convince him. First, as mentioned above, when he suggests that Cicero should be included and Brutus says no, he agrees without a doubt. Secondly in line 158, where he has expressed his concerns about Mark Antony being left alive, calling him "A shrewd contriver" and suggesting that he should be killed together with Caesar (161). But to Brutus Mark Antony does not pose a threat so he says to leave him alone, to him Mark Antony is a man who does not really care about much but "sports, wildness and much company". He calls Antony a mere limb of Caesars, as useful as his arm when the head is cut off, unable to do anything on his own. Although Cassius do give in to the wish of Brutus this time as well he is still worried.	"Yet I fear him;	 For the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar" (183 - 184)This was in fact another good judgement of Cassius' since later on Mark Antony is the one who, together with Octavius Caesar, in one way or another is responsible for the deaths of all of the conspirators. 	Brutus and Cassius seem to have a very, in my opinion, strange relationship towards one another. Cassius has some kind of respect for Brutus but mostly he is aware of the respect he has with the people and he is very well aware of what buttons to push in order to make Brutus do what he wants him to do. Brutus on the other hand seem to have no respect for Cassius or the other conspirators for that matter, his ideas are the only ones that are acceptable and the others has to almost treat him like a little spoiled child or he will walk away. 	I think this extract is a very good example of the theme of the rest of the book. First of all shows the duality of man, that we are not all bad or all good but a combination of both. Throughout the book you constantly have to revalue your opinions of the characters since they all seem to change. Although the truth is they do not really change at all but as the situation changes a new side of their personality is more convenient and therefor they start to behave in a different way. Another thing that was evident in this extract is very closely connected with my previous statement and that is that even though the characters in the beginning seem to have only unselfish reasons for their actions, as in Brutus case the good of the people and Mark Antony who wanted to revenge his good friend, you realize that this is in fact not so. Brutus did not want power for himself I think but it was definitely very much for his own sake he did it and Mark Antony changed the minute he realized he had the people with him and became very ambitious and power-hungry.
</doc>