<doc.id=0104.a3>
<title> Violence - a Part of Everyday Life? </title>
TV violence, in all its various forms, is it something we ought to accept or are we responsible for giving our children an accurate picture of the world we live in? One thing is for sure; we can not close our eyes to reality. But must we at the same time accept violence in all of its fictional forms too, which at times can be very farfetched from the real world? What kind of violence should be allowed to be broadcast and how much is parental responsibility regarding protecting children from this violence? These questions remain to be discussed and I will give you some of my thoughts about them in this essay.
	We all wish the world were a wonderful place to live in with everybody getting along, but that is not the case. We get to see terrible things that take place in the world of today, on the news practically everyday. We can not keep our eyes closed to this violence. It is therefore up to the parents to protect their children from what they think is improper for their children too see. It is also their responsibility to explain what the world is like, so that their children grow up with a feeling for what is wrong and what is right. 
	When it comes to fictional violence it is a whole different story. Parents should not have to explain how it is that a man can be standing after having received maybe fourteen punches in his face. The broadcast of violence in this form is something we should not have to live with, because it is so far from the reality and ought to be far away from the movie-screens as well. We know that there is a chance that this could give young people the wrong picture of how badly injured you really would get. It is also the bitter truth that TV violence can encourage and increase the use of violence among young people, seeing that they want to be as cool as the actors they watch. 	
	An other aspect to consider is that people in all times have been watching violence for pleasure. Even the ancient Romans happily watched people fight and what was the medieval tournaments all about but not violence? And mention one person who does not laugh when one clown hit another and that one falls. So to ban violence completely would never be possible. But to limit it would be desirable, just for the simple reason that we do not want to give our children the idea that it is not a serious thing to hit another person. If we have the chance to stop some of the assaults that take place, we ought to take it. 
	However, fictional violence is sometimes based on actual events or events that could happen in real life. They are just a mere reflection of the society we live in and therefore something we can not ban. An example of movies based on real life are the ones about the holocaust in Germany during World War II. These movies are important; just think about its educational purpose. 
	Another fact that we might not think about is that many cartoon-figures use excessive amount of violence. If we take Tom and Jerry as an example; you can not watch an episode without seeing either Tom or Jerry, and often both, getting punched several times and the second after be up on their feet again. Not many parents think twice before they let their children watch cartoons, but maybe they should. People do not always think about that children can have trouble separating this fictional world from the real world.
	What it comes down to in the end though, is that it is up to every parent to explain to their children that what they see on TV might not always be like it is in reality. A part of reality is also that a great deal of what is showed on TV contain violence and probably nothing we can do much about. We just have to admit that we watch violence for pleasure. At the same time we are responsible for the upbringing of the children who are our future. A future that we wish would contain less violence.
</doc>