<doc.id=0119.a3>
<title> PARENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHILDREN'S TV-BEHAVIOUR </title>
In this essay I will discuss parents responsibility concerning their children's TV-behavior, when it comes to the amount of violence they are allowed to see. 

Violence on television has been present from the beginning of our TV-history, but the level has increased a lot during the years and we now have far too much violence. One group of TV-audience, who comes in contact with this violence, is the children. Many children spend several hours a day watching TV and it is difficult to avoid frightening and inappropriate scenes, even though most "adult-movies" are later in the evening. Cable channels and foreign channels, with a higher share of violence than our old Swedish channels, have become more common here in Sweden lately and they often broadcast violent films in daytime as well as in night. The possibility for children to come in contact with inappropriate scenes has thereby increased. It is not difficult to imagine that the influence from some films is not the best and therefore should try to be avoided. Here parents have a great responsibility.

I think many parents don't even consider how much and what their children see on television. Parents nowadays are very limited in time and see TV as a way of keeping their children entertained while they make dinner, clean the house or wash clothes, for example. 
Of course, violence isn't the biggest part on TV. There are a lot of useful and harmless programs, which can be developing for children, with good morality and values. But many films tend to be filled with violence and frightening scenes and news often have features not appropriate for children.

 I don't think it would be wise for a parent to prohibit every program with violence in it. As regards to news and some movies with violence it would be better for a parent to sit with her or his child and try to explain what is happening on the screen. As parents can't protect their kids from all horrors on TV (there is always a possibility for a child to see scary things at home or at a friend's house) it is better to introduce the horrors in a more comfortable and milder way near a parent. I believe it's better to see from childhood what is happening in the world, but to get a shock later when first introduced to the harsh reality.

But I'm certainly not assuming that it's good to let children see all kinds of films, because many contain features that make even adults feel uncomfortable. The best thing would be if there exists a relationship of trust between parents and kids, where children obey their parents' demands for not looking at movies with far too many violent events. 

Unfortunately it doesn't work in that way, as children have a tendency of doing just the opposite of what they are being told.
When parents, even though they try real hard, don't manage to control how much violence their children see on TV, some force from outside the family would be of great help.

I read an article from Time Magazine, July 24, 1995, by Ginia Bellafante, called "Locking out violence", that is about a chip that can delete violent programs from television. Parents can install such a V chip (for antiviolence chip) and thereafter be sure of not having unexpected violence on TV.
This can be seen as a solution to the problem; it is certainly a way in the right direction but more will have to be done in the area.
Anyway, I see this as a helpful outer force for parents to show responsibility. The worst with such a devisor is the big number of irresponsible parents who won't go out and buy television sets that contain the V chip. This leads us to the conclusion that the children, who probably need this solution the most, won't get a chip because their parents don't care.

What children see on TV will always be the responsibility for parents, though not the easiest behaviour to control. Rules from parents, that forbid children from certain programs, aren't enough. Help to reduce violence is necessary and the chip that deletes violence can be one possible solution.
</doc>