<doc.id=0135.a3>
<title> Problems with parental responsibility for adults-only-TV in Sweden </title>
In this essay I will discuss parental responsibilities by using an article by Gina Bellafante called Looking out violence as a springboard. I will try to use personal thoughts and experiences as well. These two things combined with facts will make my essay complete.

The article is about endorsing a V chip to lock out violence on TV. You can choose a certain level of violence and delete any programme above this level. Opponents who are against this think that this is something the government has come up with to control what people see on television. Further more they regard that films with historical points of view, like films about nazism, have too much violence in them and therefore they will be left out as well as films with entertainment violence such as Terminator. My personal opinion about this is that the opponents may be right. If you, as an adult, want to see a movie that contains violence and you have a V chip on the TV, it's not very amusing - especially if you pay money to watch television. The smallest children should of course not see movies with much violence in them. It's up to you as a parent to decide which movies that should be.

When the children grow up being so old that you leave them at home without a baby-sitter, I believe that they've already watched this kind of movies at friends and on videotapes. But if they are younger than fifteen you have to make them understand that they are not allowed to see certain movies at that age. This is however almost impossible to prevent. I have my own experience in this matter. When I was thirteen and my entire family was watching this movie my parents had a hard time not letting me watch. I remember myself standing in the opening of the door peeping at the TV. This is maybe a common situation in many homes in Sweden.

Children see violence everywhere in every show, even on the newscasts. Some newscasts are shown right before the children's programmes and that's why many children unavoidably watch the news. If the child is very young he/she will have no response watching the news and they don't understand the background of what they see. There are also some cartoons with much violence in them, and those children who watch these movies get more or less affected by them. If there is too much violence on TV and the child is too young, then you have to change channel and take over the remote control.

It is important that you, as a parent, really explain the difference between fiction (the violent movies) and reality (the News). In the movies when the hero takes a hit he just gets up again, but on the News the body stays on the ground. I think that the children know that the News shows the reality. It is also important that the child becomes aware of that some news aren't objective and that it's possible to distort the reality by abbreviating or edit interviews, for example. 

You have a big problem if your child is watching violent movies half the day on the video, or even erotic movies. The latter gives your child a wrong view of sexuality and the relationship between boys and girls. Both of these sides, violence and erotic, gives you a monotonous view of life.

It's not easy being a parent in the society of today, with all it's information and the growing acceptance of violence. The children get a wrong idea about how the world is functioning. As a parent you should prevent these problems by taking your child to cultural places like museums and watch good movies with deeper messages in them. It's impossible to look after your children every hour of the day, and I don't believe it's a complete solution to forbid your children from watching these certain movies. There is a chance this leads to more excitement about them. There is no simple solution to this complicated problem, since there are advantages and disadvantages about everything.
</doc>