<doc.id=0138.a3>
<title> Parents have to take their responsibility. </title>
For me as a future teacher the increasing violence in the society and the lack of respect between people worries me a lot. It is already very noticeable in schools. The climate is much rougher today, than just 10 years ago when I went to school. Children don't show much respect and consideration towards each other today. They don't seem to know the social rules for how to behave. Even though I think this is becoming a world wide problem my reflections are based on Swedish circumstances. From my experiences as a teacher assistant in schools during my education, and from the picture I get from media. 

Many alarming reports show how kids spend more and more time by themselves in front of the TV while their parents are working. At the same time, attitudes in the society are getting rougher. I think there's a connection between, the new role of the TV as a babysitter, and the changes we are facing in society. I don't think though, the question is about how, or if the violence on TV effect children, -of course it does, it effect grown up as well. But to blame the increasing violence in the society and the lack of respect between people on the violent and lewd programs on TV, is to give the problem a to simple solution. The issue is that children shouldn't spend so much time in front of the TV in the first place. Children in School age need a model for how to be in social situations. If TV is the only model they get then they will also act the way they learned from the TV. When this behaviour doesn't fit in our society, there will be arguments. This is an observable pattern in schools. Parents feel guilty because they are working to much. To make up for this they let their kids stay up late to watch movies. Then, when these children come to school they're tired because they have been up late to watch a scary film and maybe not been able to sleep because of it. The consequence is that these children get easily annoyed and can't concentrate in class. If the only way they know how to show this is through violent actions and rude language that they learned on TV, that is what they will use. I've got shocked many times to hear what kind of shows children, in the class in which I did my practise, had been allowed to watch.

 Parents can't be replaced by TV. Children need a real adult to serve as a model for how to behave and react in social life. Therefor, parents have to take their responsibility and serve as a good model for their children. They have to set rules, so the children learn what is right and wrong. Children have to build up their own conscious to be responsible, secure and considerate individuals. Parents have to serve as a guide for their children, and help them to fill their time with something meaningful, give them interests and make them curious on life. Parents who think they are doing their children a favour by letting them watch TV all day are committing a huge mistake. You can't live your life through TV, you have one life and millions of possibilities to fill it. It is on the parents responsibility to offer their children something better to do than TV. After all, today's children are going to rule the society tomorrow, but they need the tools and the judgement to do so.
</doc>