<doc.id=0142.a3>
<title> Is it always parents responsibility when their children are getting violent? </title>
I would like to discuss increased violence on the streets, and how important it is with parental responsibility for children. In many cases it can be hard to judge if it is mainly parents responsibility or society's bad influence that make children get violent. One cannot put the blame on parents that have children that have been well brought up, but yet they get into trouble. However, parents should be responsible for that their children are brought up to respect the law. 

The biggest problem with parental responsibility today is that parents are not as much present at home with their children. Parents do not always have time or are not in the mood of listening to their children, when both mother and father are working full-time. Family situations with little parental responsibility are quite usual in Sweden today. If the parents have not got any control over what their children do, they can be tempted to do something illegal. Unfortunately it gives a stronger potential for children to choose the wrong track and end up in violent and criminal gangs. 

Often have children that resort to violence been badly influenced by their parents. Problems with domestic violence in their childhood can cause trouble in their social development. Some of the kids that are brought up with violence and drugs as something common at home, usually become criminal themselves. 

One can wonder if an increased level of violence and crime among youths is due to that society has become tougher. When Sweden's national finances became worse in the beginning of the nineties the unemployment grew, and government contributions to schools were cut down. These are some reasons that have made the daily life tougher for young people, and probably increased violence in the streets. As higher demands are made on education for getting an employment, the situation for young people having no education become worse. 
Teenagers that have nothing useful to do may be lured into a trap by the social satisfaction of being a group member in a criminal gang.

Do children become more violent because they are looking to much at action shows on television? There are no evidence that can tell us this is true. If family circumstances are bad, violence on television can affect young people. Otherwise, violent TV shows should not be a bad influence on youths that do not have any special problems.

It is not possible to stop the increasing violence with one solution. There is a lot that could be done to prevent children from getting violent. One way to stop it could be creating activities for children that have tendencies to be violent. Many local authorities in Sweden build recreation centres for youths, and arrange entertainment that to keep young people off the streets.
</doc>