<doc.id=0174.a3>
<title> Television is a Moral Founder! </title>
The entertaining programs shown on Television have a large extent of violent. Everyday a lot of the Swedish people watch television for several hours, the foundings of morals and ethics they get through TV is very important, especially for the young generation. There ought to be a good moral message of some kind connected with every film. The violent scenes ought to show the real pain and fright the victim suffers and not give the viewer the impression that you just can stand up and walk away afterwards. 
	Today it is a pity that so many persons actually spend their free time in front of TV instead of doing something active. Even if they see programs with different topics they only get to know about it through the TV, the best thing for everyone is to do something that activates their own mind and body in some other way, than that of their daily work. By doing something different like meeting other people with the same interests, but maybe with an other background in their work, they will get a wide aspect of life in whole and get a reflection of other peoples thoughts and feelings.
	The consequent of staying at home and just watch the programs TV presented, will instead decrease their mind and make them more available for the moral and ethical view of life that is presented through the TV. With out our mental awareness it will influent our minds, and make us accept violence shown on TV without thinking about their motive or the victims suffering, it will in the long run end in an passive observer accepting all violent, with its lack of moral and ethic, maybe with an excuse that it is only a movie made to give them a time of relaxation. 
	This passive form of relaxation has spread down in age to the younger generations, the violent movies are often watched by young boys. The effect of this is not that good because, today many families consist of only one parent, which often is the mother. The consequent of this is that the boys seldom meet any men and this have lead to a lack of male images, they need a picture of a normal man, they do not know how a man is supposed to act and behave. The only picture they have is the one they get when they watch TV, the programs they prefer to watch is very often the exciting violent programs with a macho man that does not seem to have any feelings and is good at killing. 
	With this in mind the TV companies ought to think more of its viewer than on earning money, here we have a whole generation, that will grove up watching violent movies without any, moral or ethical foundation in the things that happens, I am convinced it will have an deeper negative effect on the whole society than we are aware of now. Watching TV is a kind of easy relaxation and amusement, every one needs to relax in different ways. The thing that is wrong with it is the picture of unnecessary violence, but there are movies with some kind of violence but although with an realistic message to the viewer, I personally liked the action movies Mc Ivor where the message is that you can solve a problem if you are creative and can some fundamental science, here we meet an good image for the young generation to look at. 
	Because of the TV's big influence on the whole Swedish society, they also have a very big responsibility to build up a good moral and ethical foundation. There are better action movies to show without that much unnecessary violence. The young generation likes the amusement of watching TV and they get very many different impressions after watching, the message they ought to get is one with positive moral and a good images to copy.
</doc>