<doc.id=0222.a3>
<title> PARENTS NEED TO TAKE MORE CARE OF THEIR CHILDREN. </title>
It occurrence many discussions about violence on TV nowadays. The debates are if the violence affects children or not. I say that they do. An adult who see shooting and killing on TV can often keep distance to it, but children cannot. Every thing that happens around us is registered by the brain and kept in our subconscious, and that affects our behaviour towards other people that we meet. The films on TV have become more fixated with violence then the films that were produced and showed in the 60s. We can now see how the hero gets punch after punch and still be able, though he should be in intensive care, stop the bad "gays" and save the world. We can also see that it have become a tuffer attitude among teenagers in society today then it was 30 years ago. Why has this happend? Personally I think that this is a parental problem. The grown ups are living a more hectical life to day then they did when I was brought up. My parents made time to be with me, and I was not allowed to see more then two TV programs a day when I was a child and my parents always saw the program with me. If I got upset by anything my parents were always there so I could talk about it. Maybe that is the problem, children nowadays are allowed to se all the programs they want to. TV has become a modern nanny. If the children see something terrifying they have no one to talk with. After a wiled the mental blocks start to disappear. Most children need some identification, some role models. If the parents are not there for them the children will look for other role models, closes to hand are the action heroes. 

Steven Seagal is a very distinguished lobbyist for the "Sierra Club" working against environmental pollution, but he is also a popular action actor who uses a lot of violence in his films in purpose to reach the violence fixated teenagers. Learning them to take more care of our world. Unfortunately, he is also telling them that if you are going to fight, have a purpose with it, do not do it only because it seems to be a lot of fun. It is not. One can discuss if Mr Seagal is doing the right thing. I think it is regrettable that the only way to reach a large group of youngsters today is to say that it is OK to act with violence, but only if you do it for a good cause. The film industry is only interested in one thing, EARNING MONEY. They do not care about the effect the films have on children. We can se the affects in the society today caused, mainly, by the film industry. It will properly be a lot worse before it turns to the "right" way again. That is if we adults will be able to change our attitude and take better care of the children, give them more time. Parents seem today think that the schools and society should take care of their children and give them criterion. 10 years old boys are using knives at school today hurting other children, and are not understanding why this is wrong. They have not been tough to understand the consequences. At first maybe the children think that no one will get hurt, no one in film does, but after a while they see that a blade could hurt and kill people. This could for some children be a start of a "criminal career". As a teacher student I think that this is intimidating, I would like to learn the pupil's subjects in school and give them knowledge, not raise them, telling them what they can do or not. I think that every child should have learned from their parent that hurting other people, physically or mentally, is wrong.
</doc>