<doc.id=2026.a3>
<title> WHO IS TO BLAME? </title>
What I have always wondered about in the debate of " who-is-to-blame" for children being extremely violent in our recent time, is why the blame usually is laid upon society? At least in Sweden, it seems to me that the schools and authorities seem to be more responsible for children than the parents. Why are not parents responsible, if a child turns to violence as a solution? They, the parents, are the ones that hopefully took a decision on bringing a new life into this world. Why are they only held responsible until the child is old enough for school? Are they not the adults that a child hopefully looks up to and interacts with on an everyday basis? Moreover, can we really blame TV for children been violent?

Although children do meet their teachers every weekday, I do not believe that a teacher has the same authority over a child as a parent. Nevertheless, sometimes I have seen the opposite clearly working in some kindergartens, that sometimes the word of a teacher weighs heavier with a child than the word of the parent. Why is that? Is it because kindergartens have more routines in their schedules than a household? Is it because the child respects the teacher more? I do not believe this. What I think, we could blame society for is that many parents do not seem to have time to spend with their children. However, can we really blame society for that, are we not all individuals who can decide for ourselves? I think parental responsibility is more a question of how parents prioritize today! I know some parents do prioritize their children, but many parents do not. 
I think many families in Sweden may take the "easy way" when it comes to a young person who gets hard to handle. Instead of trying to find a solution, they hand them over to teachers or authorities to let them draw the lines and put up the rules. This is the responsibility of the parent(s). However, Sweden been a socialistic country, it provides a big net for both parents and children. This net is definitely good and essential for children, who are abused. Nevertheless, I do not believe it is always good for a young person, which might have problems, to be handed over to this net by his/her parent(s). However, this does not mean that a parent should be excepted to be able to handle every kind of situation. I think rather than letting teachers and authorities handle difficult situations parents should be able to contact some agency to advise them and probably a lot of parents do use the available ones, but not enough. 

From my point of view, I would say that TV does not hurt a child's capability to tell right from wrong or from being able to tell if a person will get hurt if he/she does something bad. If a child knows that TV shows are mostly fictional and the child is supported to understand the "world" of television by an adult, who will help the child to tell right from wrong. I do not believe that TV can cause the violence that adults are confronted with today by children. I have watched over average time of TV since the age of nine and I know that for me TV was a substitute for friends sometimes, but also a habit. However, whatever shows or films I watched I have known that the injuries and fights were not real and that a human body could not possibly endure all the injuries in the movies. Maybe that is what the producers of violent movies and series should change - they should be more realistic. Instead of a person be hit over the head 21 times and not dying, they should show that one hit can be fatal. I think that is what causes the violence between children. They think, they are just kidding around and that no one will get seriously hurt, since the guy on TV did not die from a bullet, but was shot 26 times and still survived. 

To summarize my reflections on parental responsibility, I would say that parents in Sweden and the industrialized world should take more responsibility and put up rules, which are consistent. Although I do see that parents might need help with that, which should be offered by society, which brings us back to that the blame utimiltly will lay on society. However I do not think we can lay the blame on society since we are the society.
</doc>