<doc.id=2046.a3>
<title> Violence on television effects young viewers. </title>
Owing to the increasing production of films containing violence, children have been offered an enormous amount of tempting and inappropriate films to watch. Naturally, most of the parents consider this a difficult problem and want to protect their children from it. Consequently, this has started a lively debate in Sweden about children's habits of watching violence on television, and whether it has any connection with violent behaviour in real life. Since violence among young people has increased in recent years, many people see the rise as a reflection of children/teenagers watching more violence on television today. What is more important in the discussion, is what kind of violence they watch because there are different sorts with different aims and effects. That is to say, there is a great difference between violent documentaries and brutal action films. Of course, violence can be caused by other factors in children's environment too, like family situation, domestic violence etc. But, I think that children and teenagers become influenced a lot by violence on television. That is not to say that, all young viewers become violent, because some probably have a tendency to become more influenced than others do. Now, I will develop my thoughts of why violence on television effects children and teenagers and what the effects are. 

By watching violent programs young people get a misleading picture of reality. Since today's modern technology has made it easier to use special effects in films, this has led to an increased production of violent films with brutal and unrealistic scenes. In other words, the actors can be hit very hard several times but still, do not show any signs of pain. Certainly, these invulnerable persons in films must be confusing to young people and make it hard to distinguish between fiction and reality.

Therefore, it is no coincidence that violence has increased among young people, because they become inspired by violence on television. Consequently, watching a lot of violence result in that children stop showing any reactions or feelings to the content. Furthermore, they become influenced by the unrealistic violence and turn out to be more aggressive and impatient, and some even start using the same brutal methods like their favourite heroes in the films. This leads to, a larger amount of young people taking part in crimes, fights and damage to get rid of their strong feelings. 

Furthermore, realistic violence as in news and documentaries has a warning and a frightening effect of some young people. Naturally, that effect should really concern everyone but unfortunately many people have a wrong picture of reality and are not able to see the different between realistic violence and fiction violence. Because of this, most people do not really react since they think that those kind of scary events will never happen to them. On the other hand, persons who have been exposed to violence in real life certainly feel very frightened and reminded of their terrifying experiences when watching this realistic violence. Therefore, in comparison to fiction violence I think that this kind of violence actually may be of use to make young people start finding out how dangerous and serious it really is. 

There is no doubt, that there is a connection between violence that young viewers are familiar with from television and the increase of young people acting violent in our society. But, I agree that other factors in the environment also have effects of children's behaviour. It is obvious that children tend to watch programs that are not aimed at them. In other words, the unrealistic fiction violence is aimed at adults as "entertainment" and that is why it leads to negative effects of children. However, watching realistic violence as in news and documentaries would probably only do the young people good. That is to say, it would give them a warning and frightening effect and prevent them from becoming easily inspired.
</doc>