<doc.id=2062.a3>
<title> Parents or television companies responsibility? </title>
Children of today spend to much time infront of the television, and they watch to much violence. When I was little me and my older sister used to watch the children's television programs in the evening, but that was the only time during the day that we spent infront of the television. Our parents told ous what we could see, and since we had only two canels the television did not offer as much violence as it does today. Today there are far to many canels and many parents have absolutely no idea what their children are watching. Many children watch people getting killed on the television and it seems to be as normal as going to bed every evening. I think that some parents blame the television company for all the violence on the television, and do not see that as parents they have a great responsibility. But I must say that there is far to much violence on the television no matter whose responsibility it is.
	 When parents decide to have children it involves a great responsibility, and they have to watch over their children so that they do not get hurt in any way. It is probably easier to see to that they do not get hurt on a knife than by the violence that they might see on the television. The violence on the television gets more brutal and horrible for every day that is passing by, and many children do not have parents that protect them from that violence. I think that the growing violence in our society is a result of children watching to many bad movies with out understanding what is really happening. Of course there is difficult to know where to draw the line, but I think that it would be a good idea for the parents to have the television close to the kitchen so that the can keep an eye on the television. In our society today there are many children that are all alone during the afternoons, and at that time there is no one who can see what they are watching. Some might even think of the television as a baby-sitter.
	 I think that parents have the greatest responsibility, but of course one has to consider the responsibility that lies upon the television companies. They cannot show a really brutal movie and say that they have done what they can by showing "recommended for people over fifteenth years". Who can decide how much violence a fifteenth-year-old teenager is capable of watching without getting effected? I think that there are many adults who are watching far to much violence. So it would probably be better for everybody if some violence was taken away. 
	 For a few years there was a computer chip, called the V-chip, introduced on the market. It was said that it could prevent the children from watching violence. The parents only had to decide how much violence their children should see, and then the television would only show movies with the chosen amount of violence. The chip has received both positive and negative criticism. Today we have the same kind of discussion in society, but this time it is about how we can protect children from violence on the computer. Some people say that it is just another way for the government to controll ous, but I do not really understand the connection between violence control and the government. I think that it might not be the perfect solution and of course it has faults, but att least it is something that can help ous to shut out some of the violence. Clearly the children need someone or something that draw the line since most parents are work during the day. Finally the most simple solution to this problem with violence is probably to encourage parents to spend more time with their children, and show them what they should see. An important thing is of course to talk with the children about what they are watching and explain how movies are created. As said before there does not exist a simple solution to this problem.
</doc>