<doc.id=2065.a3>
<title> Stop the V-chip! </title>
The V-chip is a computer chip that can be installed in television sets. It would cost about S 5 to S 30. The chip would read encoded signals transmitted by broadcasters and cable operators. Shows will be rated on an ascending scale of violence and the parents can decide what level of violence the child is allowed to watch. Broadcasters are supposed to develop these rating codes that will tag programs containing violence. If the industry fails to do this, then the law provides that a government commission would be established to rate television programs. This government control, among many other reasons, is why we cannot allow the V-chip.

First of all, since it will be the government who controls what kinds of programs that are suitable, the V-chip is a form of censorship, which violates the First Amendment. We can not allow that. We already have a "rating system", the free market, and a V-chip, "the channel selector".

This is just the beginning. It will not take long until more chips will emerge on the market, one possible chip could be a "P-chip" (propaganda chip), which would hide following: ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, MTV, et cetera. 

Furthermore the V-chip is unlikely to be used in poor households with older television sets, which do not contain the chip, or in homes with neglected children. It is most likely to be used by parents already committed to involvement in their children's education - that is in homes where the children are at low risk for developing violent behavior.

Moreover, there is very often more than one TV in each household. Probably the parents will not replace all sets. This means that the children only can watch TV in the living room or where ever the chip is placed. That will not work. As soon as they are left alone, they will switch to another TV and watch these forbidden programs. Children work that way. 

Parents are often without technical knowledge and some might find it too difficult to use the V-chip. If they manage to use the chip, the kids would probably break the code, sooner or later, and unlock what the V-chip blocks. Kids are usually better than parents are when it comes to high-tech.

Consider also that everybody will not use the V-chip, which means that there are always some children to whom the others can go and watch the "forbidden" programs. This you can do nothing about since you are not able to choose your children's friends. 

Instead of forbidding some sort of programs parents should be involved with their children while they watch television so they can explain and discuss different kinds of programs. A TV is not a baby sitter and should not be used as one. 

If a program that your child is watching should be too violent there is one simple solution; turn off the TV! Children have to know who the boss is. Do not be afraid to tell your children what they are allowed to do or not. 

Finally, the fact that there are too much violence is true, but there are many ways to approach that without interference by federal government.
</doc>