<doc.id=4015.a3>
<title> Childrens abuse of Television </title>
I have a little sister named Frida who is 13 years old. Frida has a friend of the same age who always spends about five hours a day in front of the television after school. The fact that a child spends so much time in front of the television every day is not unusual. This makes me wonder what can possibly be the good and what are the bad things about this.

Firstly I believe that watching television is a great thing to do for children, if they can control it. They cant control it if they watch television all afternoons, but they can if they watch it now and then for a social cost. For example watching a good movie on a Friday night together with your family or some kind of program together with your friends. If television works as a social matter for children to do together, it is very good. Especially for teenage children so that they are not out making trouble on a Friday night for example. Children also learn a lot of good things by watching television. But I think that when it comes to those who watch Television all day, it has gone to far. It has gone to far when television becomes an attribute to spend time with friends and family. If you cant miss a specific program to spend time with your friends, it is absolutely a matter of an abuse of television. Then television has lost its function completely.

Secondly I believe that an abuse of television may lead to future problems for children who have this kind of abuse problem. For example a child who watches television too often does not do things you are supposed to do when you are little. By this I mean things like being outside and running around, playing with friends and so on. Children who lay in front of the television all day instead of spending time outside with their friends will possibly turn to be both lazy and maybe also overweighed. Then it will be a future problem for these children. Spending time with friends should be what you want to do when you are little, not lay in front of the television every night to se what happens in "Baren" for example. I think that it is so very for children to run around. It is when you are little that you create a pattern of your future. I certainly would not like to be lazy and I am happy that I did not lie in front of the television all day when I was little. To have a good health is very important and you will certainly not get a good health lying in front of the television every day. 

Lastly I would like to say that I dont like it when parents let their children watch television because they dont have time to be with them. This is so typical in society today because we are so stressed all the time. By this I mean that we always have so many things to do and so many things to think of that we dont have time to sit down and relax. This makes parents to put their children in front of the television and let them sit there while they prepare dinner or something. The television has become a kind of a babysitter today, which is no good because it makes children look at the television more often. 

Sometimes it is of course good for both children and parents to relax a bit in front of the television. It can be a way to clear your mind a bit, which is good in this stressed society. But still I think that it has become too much watching of television today, especially for children. Television is of course a great invention, but I believe that we must control the use of it so that our children will not abuse it. And we must not ever use television to keep children busy.
</doc>