<doc.id=4028.a3>
<title> Reflections on Television </title>
Watching TV is a habit of many people. As soon as you sit down in the sofa you put the TV on and start watching almost anything, you just rest your eyes on the moving picture and relax. I used to do that until I realized how well you manage without it. What is good and bad with TV in general? How can it be good for you and why is it bad?
	 TV started to annoy me when I lived at home last summer and my mother wanted to watch TV after work (instead of talking to me that had been home alone all day!) I couldn't understand that she saw TV preferable to social life as I had been living without a TV for about two years, not missing it. 
	 Still I watch TV very rarely and I have been on the opinion that TV is something bad. The day I was going to start writing on this essay I was talking to my sister and she told me about a thriller in three parts starting on TV that night. Of course I gave it a chance as I had studying as my option. I saw it and I loved it. Directly after that one there was another one and I kept on watching. Instead of writing an essay totally against TV that night, I will have to write about both good and bad in having a TV today.
TV is good because it gives information from the whole world, and it can also be very entertaining and interesting. It is relaxing and you can watch it from your own favorite sofa. It is good if you are home alone and don't want to go out or if you don't have anything else to do.
	 When I was living without a TV, me and my friends used to sit In the evenings talking, painting, cooking or making something else together, we were four people from different countries and we learned a lot from each other living very close together. If we wanted to go out to do something else, we went to the movies or to pubs or nightclubs. At this time I lost my habit of watching TV and I found that we became much more creative doing different things every night. As I said before TV can be entertaining and educating, (it can be crap as well as everybody knows) but I believe that you can learn a lot from being without it for a while. TV is a substitute to conversations and social life, not only that it makes you not going out to meet people and do things, but also among families. If people didn't have a TV in their homes I think that they would get to know each other better, and talk more to each other. Maybe do things together instead of watching TV. Your TV doesn't make you very creative, as no personal input is needed to use it (Except to find the remote control).
	 Sometimes I am happy for the TV as it gives me an excuse not to talk if I don't feel like it, and I think it is fine as long as one don't make it in to a habit that takes away other spare time activities. TV makes one maybe too comfortable and a bit lazy. 
	 Watching this medium is something that today is very natural to people. It is a part of our lives whether we want it or not. If you don't watch the popular TV shows you will hear about them from people around you or see all about it on the headlines of the evening press the next day. Maybe you will even hear discussions about it on the radio. You can't avoid it.
	 A good show is better than a bad conversation, but a good conversation is better than any TV program. 
	 Now I will go home to see what's on TV tonight...
</doc>