<doc.id=4045.a3>
<title> Who will pay when you turn on your TV? </title>
	You can find almost anything on TV these days, from an aquarium through live surgery to porno. And on your way you pass the news, sit-coms, drama series, and other more conventional forms of entertainment. How come TV looks the way it does today, does it reflect society? Perhaps. As you can see I labelled the news as entertainment. Is it? Well I think it is. Should it be? Interesting question. Unfortunately I have no expertise on the matter, but I certainly do have an opinion, and if you'd just bare with me, I'll tell it to you.
	The news biggest enemy is what is mankind's only real enemy, unless there are hostile civilisations of extra terrestrials coming to get us, of course, money. Money, the big corrupter. In every TV station and broadcasting networks interest is making money, if they are not making money, their company goes bankrupt, and then it's "bye-bye" employment. In this aspect one understands that news must be presented in a fashion that will hook people. The selection of news will also depend on what makes "the average Joe" stay in his chair and not change the channel. 
	So what is done in the TV-world of news is frankly what is done everywhere else. Surveys are made, poles conducted, and all sorts of things performed, which can tell the network executives what is popular and thereby give it to the viewers. This I think is undermining the credibility of the news shown today, and with that lack of credibility will come ignorance. This we already see today in many aspects, take for instance, politics. Politics has decreased in popularity spectacularly during the last, ten, fifteen years. This is not only due to bad politicians, but also to the more and more irresponsible media. What then can be done about it?
	I think that the best solution, apart from turning away from technology, is probably to inform yourself. Not let yourself be informed with the information the ruling capitalists of the world want you to receive. This is easier said than done. We would all have to neglect a number of things, in order not to be fooled by the oppressing moneymen that rule western society, and the world. We would all have to spend much more time in libraries, checking sources on the Internet and comparing news broadcasts from different channels.
	This is not possible, I think. Not in the society we live in today, when watching television is one of peoples greatest pass-times. We want to be fooled. I like watching TV myself, although it might sound different when hearing me earlier in this essay. But that's my point! I'm very dependent on TV, whether I like it or not. And the TV people know this. They know that practically everyone in western society is addicted to TV. Then who's the winner in this situation? Well, everybody! Really? Sure!!! The TV people, those who are making money because you are watching their programs, they win. Those who get a harmless mild half-hour of fun, they win. The kids growing up watching MTV or music-video-type-news shows and will later in life be totally ignorant, they win.
	Do you see something wrong here? Well so do I. One doesn't often stop to ponder these things but when you do it's quite apparent isn't it? All the mind tricks, all the sales pitches, the hooks, the teasers, and whatever everything's called in media lingo. All those things that will make us stay in our comfortable couches, for example: the abrupt and thrilling ending in a drama series just before the commercials, the hot flashy headlines in the beginning of a news show, the commercial telling you, you are a worthless human being unless you get the latest dry handkerchief, whatever that is, on the market, the game shows where you can win millions but never do.
	 What does it all really spell out in letters a hundred feet high? MONEY! Money. That's what it's all about. So of course the news are made of what will make the most money. The war between Ethiopia and Eritrea, how much do you know about that? And what don't you know about how Muslims are crazy veiled barbaric savages and nothing else. So don't you see? What's important is not the issue on it's own, it's how much money it can make. And, yes it is reflecting society. But hey this is only my opinion, I could be wrong. But what if I'm not?
</doc>