<doc.id=5002.a3>
<title> Subject: how news and weather reports work in Sweden and France. </title>
In this essay, I will discuss about how news and weather reports differ between Sweden and France. My aim of writing about this subject is to see what techniques these two countries use to attract people. It has to be different in Sweden and France because, obviously, they have a total different culture. 
	 In my experience, French people like news. It gives people the opportunity to have opinions and debates on what is going on in their society but also in the rest of the world. The news in France lasts for about forty minutes, and then afterwards you have the weather report. The thing that chocked me and which still chocks me today was when for the first time I saw the weather report here in Sweden. The map is so old-fashioned! In France they used to have these maps fifteen years ago. It chocked me because I had the impression that weather was a very important subject here in Sweden, so I thought it was strange to not having modernized these maps by using weather satellites, like in other countries. 
	 The introduction of the news in France is quite impressive. One of the main channel in France, TF1, uses an extract of the song of Paul Mc Cartney " Live and let die" to open the program. It is quite funny; this melody is quite aggressive, they probably want to impress the viewers. 
	 Here in Sweden, the introduction is very short. The presentation of the news is clear like in other countries I think. 
	 But when it comes to the design, I think that Sweden is not as developed as in France. For example on TV4, the Swedish channel, they have made some changes of scene. It is more modern and bright. But the news does not last as long as in France. I think it lasts for about twenty minutes. Something that I have noticed as well is that in Sweden they have a special part for sports with its own sports presenter, in contrast to France that has this part at the end but not separated from the news and with the same presenter. 
	 In France they attract people by having after the main news, a report. It can be about anything like reports on a specific region, its traditions or on wine districts or even animals. It is really interesting and I think that is a good way to keep the viewers. Personally speaking, I think that French people really enjoy that kind of pleasant reports especially after the world and the domestic news that usually are not very pleasant.
	 I think that Sweden does not use this way to attract people. It appears to me that Swedish news is not as comprehensive; it is more focused on important news and it is much more focused on seriousness. That maybe shows a side of this culture as well.
When it has to deal with French news, I think that they have to make some efforts to do their best to attract viewers since TF1 and Antenne 2, the two main channels, have their news at the same time, that is at one pm and at eight pm. In Sweden, they do not feel that kind of competition. The news is not at the same times on the different channels. That is probably why they do not feel like making such efforts to do it more attractive.
Another point that I want to put a stress on is that every country, not only in Sweden and France, abuses of advertisements on television. They really brainwash the viewers in keeping on sending the same advertisements over and over again. This way is really an abuse of television and commercial business. It is the same thing in Sweden and France even though Sweden has started doing it a little bit later than in France. Television really abuses of all kind of advertisements. As I said above, it is a real brainwash for the viewers nowadays.

	 My reflection was thus to compare French and Swedish news. I think that television is indispensable and since it is, it becomes a way of exploiting its advantages. Even though Sweden has taken more time to develop its way to attract viewers, it has succeeded in this subject in adapting itself to the Swedish culture, very strict, serious and clear.
</doc>