<doc.id=5015.a3>
<title> The use of television in education </title>
Practically everybody has a television at home, some people can't live without it and some people hate it and believe that it destroys our social life. I think that there are some very good programs on the television and in this essay I am going to deal with the fact that television is a very useful tool in teaching and a good compliment to the books and the ordinary teaching material.

Almost all channels on television are broadcasting a nature program and of course they are of various quality. Those channels that have had the nature program the longest time are in general the best. You can watch nature programs for different reasons. One is that you are very interested in animals and plants and is eager to learn more about them. Another is that the programs often contain of very beautiful pictures from places that we probably never going to see for ourselves. This gives you a time to dream away to exotic and warm places. Some of these nature programs can be used as material in biology in school. I believe that if you use the programs right the pupils will learn and probably remember what they have seen, especially the programs that are made by Sir David Attenborough. His programs are very informative and he is enjoyable to watch. In this way you can have good use of television as a teacher and it is a good way to vary your lectures, which makes them more interesting.

Another subject where you can use programs from television is the social studies. From time to time there are live broadcasts from the parliament and you can watch how the legislation works. There are also programs where the leaders from several parities meet and discuss different current subjects. This usually occurs before a general election. In my opinion this is a great help when you are teaching the pupils about politics especially since there are many young people that is not at all interested in that. If they watch it on the television they probably learn more than if they only were to read about it in a book and if they see how it actual works maybe they get a little more interested and starts to read the book.

A third subject where television is very useful and often used is in foreign languages, for example English. You watch foreign films without any subtitle. It is always good to listen to a language that you study, it will improve the capability to speak better. The pupils will think of this as pure entertainment and are often not aware of that they are learning. It is not common with films without subtitles on the everyday broadcast but there are several possibilities to buy that kind of films. Another way is of course that you take some tape and a piece of paper and cover the subtitle.

Furthermore you can of course use the television in all subjects and in every level of education, it all depend on the program. There are a couple of programs that is given to you by the "Utbildnings radion" and they are on the television with educational purpose. They are informative and the programs are very pedagogical.

Finally if we take a look at the financial aspect there are not that much money in school so you can not take trips to different interesting places. If you use the television instead you will be able to visit several places without actually being there. I think that it also saves much time and you can focus the teaching on other areas.

So if we sum up the reasons why the television is a good asset in teaching and learning. The pupils will be stimulated to learn more and they will probably feel that they get more eager to find out more about the different subjects. The pupils will think that learning is more enjoyable than if they were just using the books. In using the television you will have more varying lectures witch makes them more fun and you can visit interesting places without taking a trip there. In using the television in the right way you get out more of the lectures.
</doc>