<doc.id=5026.a3>
<title> When the bomb explodes - A reflecting essay on abuse of TV. </title>
The audience is hysterically screaming and the linkman is doing her best to keep the excitement. The show has reached its climax; Eventually it is time for us to find out which breast are actually real ones and which ones are fake. A majority of the audience voted in favour of Leila's breasts being fake, now she is proudly showing her sign: Real! 
Like a thick fog TV is slowly enclosing us and hampered from seeing we don't seem to find our way out. In America TV is walking even further off its original route and there are few remarks on where it might lead or on how to stop "the ticking bomb" from detonate. My essay will reflect upon the abuse of TV in America. My first paragraph handles abuse of TV in general. Second, I discuss TV-s role in society and how this medium might fill a different function in the U.S. The end of my essay tries to link TV-abuse to a possible American identity. I lastly present some philosophical thoughts that connect to the title of my essay. 
The latest years abuse of TV is not always simply a question of the amount of time spent in front of the television but has also to do with the content of the programs watched and lastly, with which attitude the spectator views a program. If a TV program doesn't require any form of own active thinking and/or if the watcher can not put the content in a proper context, we are talking about abuse of TV. In serious cases TV turns into a replacement for real life, and this is where you sympathize and feel empathy. The United States is the country where the misuse of TV is widest spread, deepest rooted and in an abnormal way is an integrated part of the country's culture and mentality. Therefore, when reflecting over abuse of TV, it is essential to show on how TV's role in America differs from the one in other countries. 
TV today has a big selection and can this way fill many functions. It can be used both by audience and producer in different purposes, relaxing, entertaining or educational, to mention a few. Because of its immense rapidity, TV is superior all other media in its role to convey and distribute news. And as we know society today is more about saving time than anything else. Used in varied purposes in limited amount, TV is neither a danger for individuals nor a threat to society. It is when TV can only play the entertaining role and further, the content is thoroughly and wrongly adapted to the watchers own world, as TV as a medium has become something fundamentally different. Namely a destructive beast that tears up established truths in society and replaces them with a utopia. These are the circumstances in America. In America the situation has gone so bad that it is hard to say if TV plays a worse role when trying to show on the existing society or showing on a dreamlike, not existing one. However, this might tell us more about a twisted U.S society than about TV as a medium. 
If there is such a thing as an American identity one of its feature has to do with exaggeration in one way or another. For example when it comes to eating habits, Americans either eat too much or barely anything at all. There is also, due to the welfare society, a widely spread mentality that there is no reason for renouncing something that can be achieved. These two facts can be linked to the well-established mishandling of TV in America. The normal feeling of when enough is enough have in America been replaced with the mentality, "the more the better". Namely, everything is possible and everything that is possible should be accomplished. "Sen kväll med Look", for instance, is a very popular TV-show in Sweden but it is close to the borderline for what Swedes find acceptable. These types of borderlines do not exist in America. On the contrary, the American audience is never satisfied; if something can be broadcasted they want to see it! When it comes to TV watching in America, part of the common sense seems to somehow have been put out of order and this has created a passive and non-questioning environment for the medium to act in. 
American ideas and values have long been spread around the world and therefore there are serious reasons to be worried when the country now is facing the ultimate welfare's backside. Something tells us that when the life showed on TV is more tempting than the existing, we have reached an outpost of existential danger; when reality is not worth to be lived then where and why should we live? The bomb is ticking and our only way to prevent it from exploding is to change the content of Television before it changes us.
</doc>