<doc.id=5047.a3>
Since the invention of the TV we have been able to see things which we probably never would have had the chance to see otherwise. Many people is influenced by all the drama series who deals with a specific job. Some young people may even chose their future job just because they are influenced by a drama series. 
	There is a great number of drama series today that deals with a specific type of job. The classical ones and probably the most popular are the police series. Nowadays, TV is flooded with many other types as well, for instance: hospital series, fireman series, military series, lawyer series and others. Since we are allowed to see things, about these jobs, which we never had the chance to see if it were not on TV, it is natural that we learn things from these series. The series often opens an interest for the job that it is dealing with. This may lead to the possibility that young people who watch a particular series want to educate themselves to that job. 
	In the case above, it is very important that the series have a high quality. Because drama series can in some cases give a very good picture of the real world and in other cases a quite unrealistic. An important factor for the quality is of course the budget of the series. A low budget series cannot afford as good actors and directors as the more expensive ones. When a teenager is inspired by a realistic series, that gives a good picture of the real job, then the series probably have had a good effect. On the contrary, if a teenager is watching a bad series and believes that it is showing the real world, there is a risk that this person want to educate itself to a job that is not what this person expected. In other words, there is a risk that low budget series gives a misguiding image of what the world is like. On the contrary, a good series can tell that the plans some people had for their future was not what they had in mind and they can rethink their future. Once again, thought, there is another side of it, a bad series can scare people of from a job, which in real life is much better than on TV.
	It is of course not many people who is so influenced by drama series that they chose their future based on it, but many people is strongly influenced by the every day heroes in them. This has both a positive and a negative side. The positive effect is when young people without a good role model in their life finds someone to learn from in a series. It will only work if the actor who plays the character is a good actor and the series is realistic and well made. On the other hand, even among all the heroes in the drama series, there is a lot of bad characters who can have bad influence on young people. This can be corrupt police officers, lawyers who do not do their job well and so on. Another risk is the fact that some drama series, which gives a false picture of a job, creates stereotypes. For instance: It is easy to believe that all American police officers sits in their cars eating big donuts and drinking coffee. Another stereotype created by the drama series is the private investigator who drinks a lot of alcohol and always fights with his wife. 
To sums things up, the drama series of today have both positive and negative effects. If people did not take the series so serious the negative effect would not have to be so big. We cannot forget that drama series is just meant to be entertainment. We cannot believe everything we see on TV.
</doc>