<doc.id=0222.a4>
<title> A modern Beauty and the Beast </title>
In "the collector" written by John Fowles we will get to meet two people, Miranda who has been kidnapped by the new-rich Caliban. Mirand is an art student; she comes from upper- middle class family. And she has been educated how to use the English language. Caliban is an uneducated man, who uses a very poor language. The aunt of C took care of the upbringing when C's father got killed in a car crash and the mother disappeared with an other man. The aunt could never give the type of love C needed from a mother. Could this be an explanation why he acts the way he does? He is looking for a "saint". In his mid-twenties C won a large number of money and become a very wealthy man. He is in love with M and fixated by her beauty. That leads to that C kidnapped M and kept her prisoner in a cellar with no windows and with locked doors. M tries to escape but C watches her like a hawk. When M realise that she will not get raped or murdered by C she tries to help, and manipulate him in hope to be able to escape. 

It is very difficult to find a theme in this book about a sick man hurting a young girl. But the only thing that I could think of is the difference between M and C. To be rich or poor are to many people a definition about money. But you can be poor and still have a rich life and vice versa. We can see this in the book. C is a very wealthy man in the aspect of money, but he lives a very poorly life. He has no friends and no yearns of learning new things. Everything should be the same over and over again. Cs only interests are his butterfly collections and the love to the beautiful Miranda who he sees as the most precious thing in the collection. The longing to get the jewel in the collection leads to the kidnapping of M. Like hanging up nets to collect butterflies he planned the kidnapping of M for a very long time. He bought a house out side London and repaired the cellar so it would look like a nice room for a girl to stay in. He even bought books for enormous sums of money only to make her feel safe in her new home. But C is not sure enough that he has done the right thing to bring M to the cellar. Those thoughts will soon disappear. What C do not understand is when M tries to be friendly towards him it is an attempt to escape, it is not any feelings of love that she shows and he wants. In Cs eyes M is nothings than a butterfly, and it is not wrong to catch them. M feels in the beginning that she can manipulate C to do a lot of things (except letting her go) he buys everything she asks for. C thinks all the time that the jewel of the collection must have the best of everything. But it is actually M that gets manipulated by C; it goes that far that she even try to give her self to him. In the same second the robe falls to the floor and M stands naked in front of C, M is no saint any more. Now everything is dirty about her, she is just an ordinary street girl. C will not see M as a saint again until she is dead. 

The captivity leads M to personal crisis. In the beginning she is convinced that he will let her go, only if she treats him good. But after a while she realise that he will never release here, only treat her as the most precious thing in the world. This is what leads her to try to sell her own body, only in the purpose to escape. It does not work. The crisis is a fact. M cannot stand that her jailer is a man with no ambition, the ignorance that he shows no longing to improve his language skills or get some mental exercise. Miranda is quite the opposite from C; she is a pro-life and hates everything that a collector stands for. She also has longing to learn new things all the time and she tries to make the best of the time in the cellar. M even tries to improve her drawing skills in the captivity. 

M thoughts about C starts to change, instead of a shay troubled man as she thought he was in the beginning M starts to se an awful ghastly man. Why should the world accept people like C? "Calibanity" (as M calls the group of people that are alike Caliban) are beastly, selfish, pettiness people that poison our world. Why cannot people be more like her self "love honesty and freedom and giving"? But also making and doing and "love being to the full/.../love everything which is not sitting and watching and copying and dead at heart".
</doc>