<doc.id=2046.a4>
<title> Dreams do not always come true. </title>
Doris Lessing's "The Fifth Child" arouses many interesting questions and ideas, which all emerge into a theme, a deeper meaning of the book. That is to say, I see the main theme as a dream of creating an old-fashioned large happy family. But, when Ben comes into their lives, their idyll is crashed. Certainly, the setting is of great importance to the theme. However, I will now develop my ideas of the main theme, and its connection to the setting.

The social background has an important role for their dream. Harriet thinks that she was brought up in a happy family, and since that kind of life is what she is familiar with, she wants to establish the same in her future. David, on the other hand, comes from a totally different background, with divorced parents and confusing experiences from a family split into two homes. Here is an example of David's thoughts about family life, "He had grown up with a fierce private demand on his future: for his own children it would all be different" (p.12). This shows that he wants to make up for his own childhood and be able to offer his children the best. Furthermore, in a discussion about family life David's comment is "My mother means that you can only value something if you've experienced it, said David. But I am the living proof that isn't so" (p.37). Here, it seems that David's wish to fulfil the dream is even stronger than Harriet's is, because for him it is a question of revenge.

The Lovatts are by others seen as very old-fashioned and conservative, and people do not really think that they fit into the 1960-70s. But, Harriet and David believe very hard in their dream and refuse to give it up. And that struggle, is shown like this in the book in the extract beginning "It had been hard preserving their belief," and ending "And look, they had been right to insist on guarding that stubborn individuality of theirs, which had chosen, and so obstinately, the best - this" (p.29). Despite all criticism, they had finally reached their goal and at that time this is the picture they had of themselves "A happy family. The Lovatts were a happy family. It was what they had chosen and what they deserved" (p.28). Of course, this shows that they are of the opinion that what you will get in life is what you deserve. Therefore, Harriet has this idea about why Sarah's baby has Down's syndrome "Harriet said to David, privately, that she did not believe it was bad luck: Sarah and William's unhappiness, their quarelling, had probably attracted the mongol child - yes, yes, of course she knew one shouldn't call them mongol" (p.29). But David did not agree with her in these thoughts.

Their home is a safety place where they live a normal satisfying life without being criticised, and therefore the house is a very important part of the setting. These following sentences explain how they look upon their home "At least they ought to know what went on outside their fortress, their kingdom, in which three precious children were nurtured, and where so many people came to immerse themselves in safety, comfort, kindness" (p.30). Suddenly, this idyllic home is destroyed when Ben is born. Already, during the pregnancy Harriet feels that something is different with the fifth child. This is how the parents think of their new-born baby" For they both felt - secretly, they were ashamed of the thoughts they had about Ben - that he had willed himself to be born, had invaded their ordinariness, which had no defences against him or anything like him" (p.71). Since, they are used to living their ordinary happy life this is a shock to them. The odd child, made the family and relatives feel uncomfortable, and it is described like this "There would be a long thoughtful stare, puzzled, even anxious; but then came fear, though everyone tried to conceal it. There was horror, too: which is what Harriet felt, more and more" (p.70). There is no doubt that Ben represents the strange and unknown, which all feel fear of. Owing to their values, they are afraid of changes and different things and that is why they overreact and feel fear instead of trying to understand Ben. David and Harriet feel a great disappointment and guilt, and can not understand what they have done to deserve this child. Since Ben came into their perfect home, it was never the same again. The family fell apart because of all the problems.

To sum up, the setting is of great relevance to the main theme in this book. In other words, the setting effects the story and makes it more intense. Especially, the attitude in the society of 1960-70s against the Lovatts gives us a picture of their old-fashioned and conservative life-style, trying to fulfil their dream. Furthermore, the house is a very important part of the setting, and the only place they feel safe and happy till that day Ben is born and the struggle against misery starts.
</doc>