<doc.id=4030.a4>
<title> ORANGES ARE NOT THE ONLY FRUIT- A SAD STORY </title>
This novel is about a young girl called Jeanette who as newborn gets adopted by a Christian, rather fanatic couple and her experiences with them growing up. Her mother brings her up and teaches her all she needs to know about the evil and God but nothing about real life.
Jeanette realises that she is not at all interested in men, that she likes girls but is not really sure if it is good or bad. She falls in love with a girl called Melanie and experiences real love with her. This love is not accepted by the mother or the church and this discovery starts a riot in their congregation and with this follows a lot of tears and actually laughter's as well.
	
	 When Jeanette was young she was trained and manipulated to join her mother in the battle against the evil. The way her mother saw things were black and white, never a mixed feeling and of course she tried to get Jeanette on her side. In Jeanettes hometown there was a papershop owned by two women she really liked. They were the only women she knew that were not married. Although they were living together and shared the same bed Jeanette could not see something wrong with it but her mother could. Her mother forbade her to go to the sea with them without giving any explanation. Later she overheard her mother: "A couple of weeks later I heard her telling Mrs White about it. She said they dealt in unnatural passions. I thought she meant they put chemicals in their sweets." (p7)
Jeanette did not know what her mother was talking about then since her mother refused to answer any questions concerning the life outside the church.

	 Naturally she had to start school and found very soon that she was not like the others and got to know a bit about the real life in a really cruel way. The quote that follows took place in school where the pupils were asked to tell the class what they did during their summer. Jeanette told them about her mother who had stayed up all night and healed a lady when she was ill and other exciting things she did within the church but the teacher interrupted her:"Is there any more? Yes, two more sides. What about? Not much, just how we hired the baths for our baptism service after the Healing of the Sick crusade. Very good but I don't think we'll have time today. Put your workbook in your tidybox, and do some colouring till playtime." (p38)

	 Jeanette heard different people complaining about their husbands, how they acted nice and then turned out to be pigs and she simply could not understand why you would marry someone at all. She found that all men are pigs (except God)." What do you do if you marry a beast? Kissing them didn't always help. And beasts are crafty. They disguise themselves like you and I. Like the wolf in Little Red Riding Hood. Why had no one told me? Did that mean no one else knew? Did that mean that all over the globe, in all innocence, women were marrying beasts?" (p71) All these thoughts in her head and no one to talk to made her reluctant not to marry a man. Again her mothers lack of information and will to talk about it confused her.

	 Later on she met this a girl called Melanie, the love of her life and she converted to Jeanettes church. They spent all the time they could together and fell deeper and deeper in love, scary but at the same time lovely. "She stroked my head for a long time and then we hugged and it felt like drowning. Then I was frightened but couldn't stop. There was something crawling in my belly. I had an octopus inside me" (p86)

Jeanettes feelings were new to her so she tried to sort them out and then she asked Melanie:
"Do you think this is unnatural Passion? I asked her once. Doesn't feel like it. According to Pastor Finch, that's awful. She must be right, I thought." (p86)

	 Eventually they got caught and tricked to church where her mother and the Pastor were waiting. "These children of God' began the Pastor, have fallen under Satan's spell" (p102)
After that meeting Jeanette ran home to one of the ladies from the congregation called Miss Jewsbury who comforted her after this terrible experience. Miss Jewsbury was also homosexual and finally came out. "Perhaps this will help. And she began to stroke my head and shoulders. I turned over so that she could reach my back. She bent over me; I could feel her breath on my neck. Quite suddenly I turned and kissed her. We made love and I hated it and hated it, but would not stop." (p104) Well home again she got questioned by her mother and the Pastor and they starved her for two days until she agreed to get the demons out of her body. That made her accepted again but the same thing happened again only this time they did not forgive her.

Finally this is all a very sad story about a humanbeing getting manipulated and hurt by her own mother because of religion and shut out from her church, her life. All of this because of her being homosexual and therefore different they treat her real badly, instead of loving her for what she is. Unfortunately this is not just fiction but, common in real life aswell.
</doc>