<doc.id=4031.a4>
<title> A Love Story- Oranges are not the only fruit </title>
"Oranges are not the only fruit" is a novel about prejudice, religion, upbringing but mostly about love. Real strong love between two persons but also broken love in several ways. In the center of all this is Jeanette, a girl who grow up with her foster-parents. They are, as many of the people in the village, very religious and Jeanette spent a lot of her childhood in church. She doesn't even attend school the first years. Since this novel take place in a small, religious village in England it seems natural for Jeanette to meet a boy, married him and have children. But what if you don't want to get married? You don't even want to have a boy? This is the destiny for Jeanette and it's what "Oranges are not the only fruit" is about.
	Jeanette is a strong, obtained and lonely girl. She doesn't have many friends; as a matter of fact the only friend she has is Elsie. She takes cares of Jeanette when her mother doesn't and she supports her. When Jeanette eventually starts school, not even the teachers accept Jeanette and her religion, or what I think because of her religion. Her is a section from the novel when Mrs. Vole and Miss talk to Jeanette after that she has written a story and made a sampler, which didn't suit the teachers:
" 'Jeanette, we think you may be having problems at school. Do you want to tell us about them?' 'I'm alright' I shuffled defensively.
'You do seem rather pre-occupied, shall we say with God.'
I continue to stare at the floor.
'Your sampler for instance, had a very disturbing motif.'" (p. 40)
	As I wrote in the begin Jeanette is never interested in boys or to get married, she even use to dream about how her wedding is failing. One day, when Jeanette was young and played cards with her aunts they were talking about men and one aunt said to Jeanette: 
" 'There's time enough for you to get a boy'
 'I don't think I want one' 
' There is what we want,' she said, putting down a jack 'and there's what we get, remember that.'" (p. 72)
When Jeanette eventually falls in love it's wrong because it wasn't a boy she fell in love with; it was Melanie. It wasn't planned in any way but it's true love, which you noticed when Jeanette said to Melanie:
" 'I love you almost as much as I love the Lord'" (p. 102)
Melanie and Jeanette have to keep there love in secretly but one day everyone had found out- in some way. When Jeanette's mother find out the truth she starts to hate her and forces her to repent:
" They had spent the day praying over me, laying hands on me urging me to repent my sins before the Lord. 
' Renounce her, renounce her', the pastor kept saying, 'it's only the demon.'" (p. 105)
	Jeanette finally repent but she never forgets Melanie and she never falls in love with a boy. After the truth about Melanie, Jeanette and her mother start to slide apart more and more since they were rather close before. In the end of the book Jeanette is kicked out from the house by her mother, it all started when Jeanette had spent all day in bed with, her lover, Kate instead of praying and the mother is saying:
" ' Oh, I'm a fool to meself', she thundered. 'Keeping you as long as I have, letting you do more exams, and for what?' She shook me. 'For what?' I pulled away. 
'Leave me alone.'
' You will be left alone soon enough.'" (p. 129)
Shortly after this episode Jeanette, her mother and the pastor were talking about Jeanette and her mother going on holiday when Jeanette suddenly said:
" 'She can go. I'm leaving the church, so you can forget the rest.'" (p. 133)
This words made Jeanette's mother furious and she kicked her out from the house. But since Jeanette is strong and independent she rent a room, start working and survive. She can never go to church again, she isn't even allowed to go to her friend Elsie's funeral. All this just because she is attracted to 'wrong' sex. 
	But what is wrong and what is right? It can't be any wrong or right in the world of love; love is always something beautiful. Unfortunately Jeanette was brought up with that the love she feels for other women are wrong; when she isn't attracted to a man she is seen as a sinner. But herself know that love is beautiful no matter what and she always stands for her feelings. I admire her for that.
</doc>