<doc.id=0222.a5>
<title> Instead of a garden "they" found a wilderness. </title>
The arrival to Virginia or Mary-Land affected the settlers from England differently. Some saw it like they had arrived to Eden, paradise made by the hand of god. But other people who thought that they were going to paradise got very disappointed when they felt that this was "the land of the devil". This affected the settlers differently in the way they treated the "wilderness", and also how to treated the native Americans. 

A large group of the people that left England had read in a newspaper article that America was the land of paradise, and for people that wanted to become rich this was the land of opportunity. But when the opportunists arrived they found it scary, the landscape, and wilderness, it became a disappointment for the settlers, they felt confused and terrified of everything new that they met. They called the Indians savages because of their strange clothing and their different way of living and that led to the settlers often got into conflicts with them. The reasons of the conflict were not caused by a competition between the Indians and the settlers about the land or the food. The basic reasons were ignorance, and the lack of respect for other culture than the English. The Indians had strange features and they behaved in a different way than the white man did. But this was not the only thing the "negative thinking" settlers disliked. The opportunists soon became negative thinkers. Everything became wrong, the climate was too rough and they had heard that the soil was much more fertile in Virginia than it were where they lived - in Mary-Land. The newspaper article had said that everything would be easy in the new country and this group of settlers left England with an idea of a "golden land". The only way to be able to live in a "golden land" is to make it become that with hard work. The group of opportunists thought that everything should be served on a silver plate and when that did not happen they could not handle the situation. Many settlers just gave up and left for the western part of the country in hope to strike gold. That would be a much easier way to become rich than be digging in the "dirt". 

Another group, more realistic people felt that they had walked right into a world they only thought existed in heaven. The enormous trees and the beautiful landscape astounded them. The rivers and creeks and the enormous mulberry trees gave a satisfaction to their eyes. They also saw deers, elks, otters and beavers and that filled their heart with joy. They also saw all the things that the wilderness could provide; their new home were a big pantry filled with cherries, walnuts, chesnuts and crabs. They also found grapes and they tried to make vine, and it fell out to taste just as good as the French vines they remembered from "home". This group of settler also took the chance to be taught by the Indians how to use, for the settlers, new and exotic fruits and vegetable. These settler were not afraid of the Indians, they accepted their way of living and their culture and treated them as an other human being. Some of what they saw was fascinating for them. The Indians knew the landscape so well, they could read the nature like the white man could read a book. They could tell what kind of animals had past the areas at night; they could see the changes in the weather long before anyone else did. The Indians caught fishes in the Creeks with their own methods. They sharpened a pole in one end, went out into the water and waited for the herring or salmon to come along, and in just the right second they put the spear into the fish and they had got their supper. 

Those who were accepting the new life tried to learn everything they could from the Native Americans. Even to show respect to the nature was something new for the settlers. They happily started to cultivate the piece of land they had got for farming. These settlers found that the soil was much more fertile in Virginia than in Mary-Land. The piece of land gave the settler a type of security they never had had before. Many parents were for the first time in years able to support and feed their children. Even for the settlers that had a positive attitude to their new country and had a good start from the beginning, soon realized that the wilderness was very difficult to master. 

The immigrants became two groups although they were alike in the aspect of reason why they fled from England. They left poverty and misery and starvation. In America the immigrants found that they could get food if they were hard working, maybe also a small fortune of money. Back in England the social differences had made the choices if a person was going to get a job or not. If you were born into the working class or middle class you remained there for the rest of your life. The English were not very fond of people who tried to leave their own sphere; this was something that did not work in America. People did not care about the social differences only if one was a hard working person and did a good job. Anyone could become rich or even a president; this was and is the American Dream.
</doc>