<doc.id=2034.b5>
<title> Lily Bart in The House of Mirth A victim of her environment? </title>
The society of the rich people in America by the turn of the century was a society built up by strict conventions. Men and women were supposed to behave in a delicate manner, and an exquisite feeling for beauty - of women, of garments, of furnishing and of landscape - was of great importance. In Edith Wharton's novel The House of Mirth we meet 29-year-old Lily Bart, a beautiful and popular lady, yet still unmarried. Her situation is all but an easy one, since the people around her expect her to be one of them, as she has always been. But Lily does not have any money of her own, and realises that she is unable to meet these expectations. There are also discussions and rumours going on concerning her male acquaintances and future marriage. How does Lily react to and behave in this extravagant, but craving, environment? Is she a victim of group pressure or is she brave enough to follow her own emotions?
The world Lily Bart was born into is a world of glamour, invitations to extravagant parties, bridge-playing, beautiful tailor-made dresses, maids and servants, and expensive jewellery. A world where the difference between success and failure is spelt "money". The more money, the more beautiful your appearance can be, and the more likely it is to make important acquaintances and become a part of this high society. As Wharton describes the situation at a gathering: 

The seated throng, filling the immense room without undue crowding, presented a surface of rich tissues and jewelled shoulders in harmony with the festooned and gilded walls, and the flushed splendours of the Venetian ceiling. (p. 132)1

This is Lily Bart's environment, and the obligations she feels she has towards society are a burden to her. Everywhere she is greeted and warmly welcomed due to her exceptional beauty and good taste for cultivated life. She knows that she can add that final touch of extravaganza to a party only by her presence, and is extremely conscious of her appearance and her status in society. "It was insufferable that Mrs Peniston should have such creatures about the house" (p. 99) as she thinks of the char-lady. 
Lily's problem - which later will become devastating - is that she just goes with the flow. She has learnt to be "inspirited by the prospect of showing her beauty in public" (p.116) and to despise the lives of those who are not as lucky as she. Enveloped in splendour, she realises that she could not remain at Bellomont without playing bridge, and being involved in other expenses; (...) She had reached a point where abrupt retrenchment was necessary, and the only cheap life was a dull life. (p.80)

However, deep down she is aware that she is merely a piece of a complicated jigsaw puzzle, living on others. She does not earn any money of her own, and admits that she is feeling trapped, not really knowing if this is the right life for her. Since she does not know of any other way to live, her world just keeps on turning around her and she is incapable of stopping it. 
Lily reflects her view of the lower class in her friend Gerty Farish, an unmarried woman who "typifies the mediocre and ineffectual" (p. 88). Lily has always regarded Gerty as a dingy person, but as Lily reluctantly climbs down the social ladder, her friend becomes a more and more important acquaintance to her. Lily's view of Gerty is altering "between pity for her limitations and impatience of her cheerful acceptance of them" (p.88). This uncertainty in Lily shows that she is, in fact, a little jealous of Gerty Farish, who is content with her simple, solitary life. 
Lawrence Selden is another important acquaintance to Lily because of the way his views of life elicit many thoughts in her own mind:

It was rather that he had preserved a certain social detachment, a happy air of viewing the show objectively, of having points of contact outside the great gilt cage in which they were all huddled for the mob to gape at. How alluring the world outside appeared to Lily (...) but most of the captives were like flies in a bottle, and having once flown in, could never regain their freedom. (p.54)

Due to these circumstances I believe indeed that Lily Bart is controlled by society, even though she has a will of her own. The simple fact that she is suspicious but will not confess it shows her tendency of giving in to others.
 
- ( (tm) -

Lily Bart is getting old. A woman of nearly thirty without a husband becomes easily the subject of rumours and talks among her acquaintances. "When a girl's as good-looking as that she'd better marry; then no questions are asked" (p.157) as Mr Ned van Alstyne puts it. Of course, Lily knows this. She is beautiful and could get any man, and is matched with several potential husbands. Marrying a rich man would be the simplest solution to Lily's financial problems. As she says: "I am horribly poor - and very expensive" (p.10). However, when it comes to love and marriage, Lily knows exactly what she is looking for and it is clear that she will not marry a man just because of his money and her opportunities to maintain her social status. Lily wants to marry for love, not for to satisfy her material needs. She would never give in to all expectations, though she realises that money is the difference between happiness or a miserable life. Even Lawrence Selden, for whom she in fact feels true love, believes that she will marry only to secure her future:

"Isn't marriage your vocation? Isn't it what you're all brought up for?"
She sighed. "I suppose so. What else is there?"
"Exactly. And so why not take the plunge and have it over?"
She shrugged her shoulders. "You speak as if I ought to marry the first man who came along." (p.9)

The behaviour of Lily Bart can be looked upon from different angles. On one hand, Lily has her own will and is absolutely aware of this, but even though she feels trapped within society she still wants to hold on to the life she always has led. It is evident that she lets herself be controlled by society. On the other hand, she is much more self-conscious about men and marriage, and will not tie herself into something that would not please her. Thus it is difficult to state clearly whether Lily is "a victim of her environment" (p.52) or not.
</doc>